CITY OF CALDWELL, IDAHO
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ordinance 3747, passed 3-16-2026
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE 1: ADMINISTRATIVE RULES AND REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
1.   THE CITY CODE
      
3.   FINANCIAL REGULATIONS
      
5.   CONTESTED HEARING PROCEDURES
      
7.   ELECTIONS
      
9.   ORDINANCES
      
11.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
13.   SURPLUS PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1: THE CITY CODE
Section
   
01-01-01   Official code
   
01-01-03   Saving clause
   
01-01-05   Penalty
§ 01-01-01 OFFICIAL CODE.
   (A)   Title. This compilation and codification of the general ordinances of
the City of Caldwell is hereby declared to be and shall hereafter constitute
the official “Municipal Code of the City of Caldwell.” Any reference to the
number of any section contained herein shall be understood to refer to the
position of the same under its appropriate title heading, its chapter heading
and its section heading, and to the general penalty clause relating thereto, as
well as to the section itself, when reference is made to this code by title in
any legal document.
   (B)   Acceptance. This code as hereby presented in printed form shall
hereafter be received without further proof in all courts and in all
administrative tribunals in this state as the ordinances of a general and
permanent effect of the city.
   (C)   Amendments. Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the
title, chapter and section number of the section or sections to be amended, and
this shall constitute a sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement
pertaining to the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code.
All such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to
the City Clerk, and said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each copy of this code within 30
days from the date of its final passage.
   (D)   Construction of words. Whenever any word in any section of this code
importing the plural is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties
or persons, any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included,
although distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter,
party or person is referred to in this code by words importing the singular
number only, or when the masculine gender, several parties or persons and
females as well as males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included.
The word PERSON shall be deemed to include any person, firm, association or
corporation, or any organization of any kind. The words WRITTEN and IN WRITING
may include printing; provided, that these rules of construction shall not be
applied to any section of this code which contains any express provision
excluding such construction or where the subject matter or content may be
repugnant thereto. Words prohibiting that anything be done, except in
accordance with a license or permit or authority from a board or officer shall
be construed as giving such board or officer power to license or permit or
authorize such a thing to be done.
   (E)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      KNOWINGLY. Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which brings the
act or omission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
      NEGLECT, NEGLIGENCE, NEGLIGENT or NEGLIGENTLY. Imports a want of such
attention to the nature or probable consequences of the act or omission as a
prudent person ordinarily bestows in acting in his or her own concern.
      OFFICER. Officers and boards in charge of departments and the members of
such boards, and such reference as use of the word CITY shall mean this
municipality. CLERK and TREASURER and other city officers shall mean the City
Clerk or City Treasurer or any officer referred to, as the case may be
applicable.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, shall include any part-owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every description of money, goods, chattels, effects,
evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any pecuniary
obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged, transferred,
increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or interest
therein.
      STREETS. Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. Applied to a building or land, shall include any
person who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether
alone or with others.
      WILFULLY. When applied to the intent with which an act is done or
omitted, implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or to make
the commission referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law or to
injure another or to acquire an advantage.
   (F)   Interpretations. In the determination of the provisions of each
section of this code, the following rules shall be observed.
      (1)   Intent to defraud. Whenever an intent to defraud is required in
order to constitute an offense, it shall be sufficient if any intent appears to
defraud any person.
      (2)   Liability of employers and agents. When the provision of any
section of this code prohibits the commission of an act, not only the person
actually doing the prohibited act or omitting the directed act, but also the
employer and all other persons concerned with or in aiding or abetting said
person shall be guilty of the offense described and liable to the penalty set
forth.
   (G)   Penalties.
      (1)   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is
created by difference clauses or sections of the official municipal code, the
prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered as to bar
any other penalty being enforced.
      (2)   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall
be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of
the general penalty clause shall apply and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day on or which a breach or violation occurs or continues.
   (H)   Liability of officers. No provision of this code designating the
duties of any officer or employee shall be so construed as to make such officer
or employee liable for any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform
such duty, unless the intention of the Council to impose such fine or penalty
on such officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the
section creating the duty.
Cross-reference:
   General penalty provisions, see §
01-01-05
§ 01-01-03 SAVING CLAUSE.
   (A)   Repeal of general ordinances. All general ordinances of the city
passed prior to the adoption of this code are hereby repealed except such as
are referred to herein as being still in force or are by necessary implication
herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving clauses contained in
division (B) below), from which are excluded the following ordinances which are
not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances, appropriation ordinances, ordinances
relating to boundaries and annexations, franchise ordinances and other
ordinances granting special rights to persons or corporations, contract
ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a contract or the
issuance of warrants, salary ordinances, ordinances establishing, naming or
vacating streets, alleys or other public places, improvement ordinances, bond
ordinances, ordinances relating to elections, ordinances relating to the
transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the city and all special
ordinances.
   (B)   Public utility ordinances. No ordinance relating to railroads or
railroad crossings with streets and other public ways or relating to the
conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall be repealed by
virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of division (A) above,
excepting as this code may contain provisions for such matters; in which case,
this code shall be considered as amending such ordinance or ordinances in
respect of such provisions only.
   (C)   Pending suits.
      (1)   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to
any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment
so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance
takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provisions may be, by the consent of the party affected,
applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
      (2)   This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words
or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new
provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
      (3)   Nothing contained in this division (C) shall be construed as
abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of
the city herein repealed, or as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering
any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person,
firm or corporation or as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or
provisions thereof in force at the time of adoption of this code.
§ 01-01-05 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalty and applicability.
      (1)   Penalty. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this
code shall be subject to fine and/or imprisonment, up to, but not exceeding,
the maximum penalties set forth in Idaho Code § 50-302, as amended. Either or
both such fine and imprisonment may be imposed.
      (2)   Application. The penalty provided in this section shall be
applicable to every section of this code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any
section of this code, where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed or
where any act which is of a continuing nature is forbidden or declared to be
unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed upon each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
   (B)   License. When a person is convicted of a violation of any section of
this code, any license previously issued to him or her by the municipality may
be revoked by the court or by the municipal governing body.
(Ord. 1499, passed 6-20-1978; Ord. 2669, passed 2-20-2007)
CHAPTER 3: FINANCIAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
01-03-01   Investment policy
   
01-03-03   Depositories designated
§ 01-03-01 INVESTMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Creation. The City Council hereby establishes and adopts an investment
policy for the city. The authority and responsibility for the investment staff
and the Council Finance Committee are therein designated and are incorporated
herein by reference.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of the investment policy is to establish the
city’s investment scope, objectives, delegation of authority, standards of
prudence, reporting requirements, internal controls, eligible investments,
selection of financial institutions and dealers, portfolio maturities and
volatility, diversification, risk and safekeeping and custody requirements.
Amendments to the policy may be made by the Council Finance Committee after
consultation with the City Council. The policies and procedures of the City
Treasurer and Finance Director shall also comply with the investment policy as
well as the state code and GAAP.
   (C)   Investment of idle funds. The City Treasurer and Finance Director,
and/or those person(s) assigned by the Treasurer, shall invest money only in
those investment instruments allowed by Idaho Code § 50-1013.
   (D)   Supervision of investment. Such investment shall be made by the City
Treasurer and Finance Director, and/or those person(s) assigned by the City
Treasurer, under the supervision of and upon the approval and direction of the
Council Investment Committee, in accordance with the city’s investment policy.
   (E)   Goals and objectives; prudent investor rule.
      (1)   The primary goal of the city investment portfolio is to maximize
return on idle cash while ensuring the safety of the invested principal and
providing for adequate liquidity to meet the purpose for which the fund was
created.
      (2)   The City Treasurer and Finance Director shall strive to maintain a
reasonable level of diversification both as to investment types and
institutions with which funds are invested.
      (3)   Investments shall be made with the exercise of that judgment and
care, under circumstances then prevailing, which persons of prudence,
discretion and intelligence exercise in the management of their own affairs,
not for speculation but for investment, considering the probable safety of
their capital as well as the probable income to be derived.
   (F)   Selection of financial institutions and dealers.
      (1)   The city depository shall be selected through competitive bidding
in accordance with the state code. When selecting the depository, the credit
worthiness of the institution shall be considered.
      (2)   It shall be the policy of the city to purchase securities only from
those financial institutions included in the city’s approved list of brokers/
dealers or banks.
      (3)   Before accepting funds or engaging in investment transactions with
the city, the supervising officer at each depository and each recognized
broker/dealer shall submit a certificate acknowledging he or she has reviewed
the investment policies and objectives and agrees to disclose potential
conflicts or risks to public funds that might occur as a result of business
transactions between the firm/depository and the city.
   (G)   Safekeeping and custody. Investments of the city shall be held by a
third-party custodian bank or a branch of the Federal Reserve. Investment
officials shall be bonded to protect the public against possible embezzlement
and fraud. Collateralized securities such as repos may be purchased using the
delivery versus payment procedure. Written safekeeping procedures shall be
established and reviewed annually by an independent auditory.
(Ord. 1897, passed 5-6-1991; Ord. 3447, passed 8-18-2022)
Cross-reference:
   Designated depositories, see §
01-03-03
§ 01-03-03 DEPOSITORIES DESIGNATED.
   Bank of the Cascades; Wells Fargo Bank; Home Federal Bank; State of Idaho
Local Government Investment Pool; U.S. Bank, N.A.; and Zion’s Bank are hereby
designated as the official depositories of municipal funds for the city. The
City Treasurer and City Finance Director, or any other designated official, is
hereby ordered, required and directed to keep monies belonging to or in the
care of the city in one or several of the above named depositories.
(Ord. 2730, passed 2-4-2008; Ord. 3447, passed 8-18-2022)
CHAPTER 5: CONTESTED HEARING PROCEDURES
Section
   
01-05-01   Title
   
01-05-03   Definitions
   
01-05-05   Applicability
   
01-05-07   License procedure
   
01-05-09   Appeals to the City Council
   
01-05-11   Contested cases; notice; hearing; records
   
01-05-13   Appointment of a hearing examiner
   
01-05-15   Rules of evidence, official notice
   
01-05-17   Examination of evidence by agency
   
01-05-19   Decisions and orders
   
01-05-21   Ex parte consultations
   
01-05-23   Retention of records
§ 01-05-01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be referred to and known as the City of Caldwell
Contested Hearing Procedures Ordinance.
(Ord. 1918, passed 11-4-1991)
§ 01-05-03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENCY. Each city board, commission, department or officer, including the
Council, authorized by law to make rules, grant licenses or to determine
contested cases and quasi-judicial matters, except legislative matters.
   CONTESTED CASES. A proceeding, including, but not restricted to, licensing
in which the legal rights, duties or privileges of a party are required by law
to be determined.
   LICENSE. The whole or part of any permit, certificate, approval,
registration, charter or similar form of permission required by law, but does
not include a LICENSE required solely for revenue purposes.
   LICENSING. The agency process respecting the grant, denial, renewal,
revocation, suspension, annulment, withdrawal or amendment of a license.
   PARTY. Each person or agency named or admitted as a party, or properly
seeking and entitled of right to be admitted as a party.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, association, governmental
subdivision or public or private organization or any character other than an
agency.
   QUASI-JUDICIAL. The action of any agency in applying general laws,
ordinances, rules or policies to specific persons and/or parties, interests or
situations.
(Ord. 1918, passed 11-4-1991)
§ 01-05-05 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Except for §
01-05-07, the provisions hereof shall apply to the procedures employed by an
agency or the City Council when that agency and/or the City Council are acting
in a quasi-judicial capacity involving an appeal of an initial determination of
an agency.
   (B)   When licensing is required to be preceded by notice and opportunity
for hearing by ordinance or state statute, the provisions of this chapter shall
apply, unless specifically in contravention to state statute, or when the
provisions of this chapter are specifically excepted by city ordinance or where
a specific procedure is prescribed by another city ordinance.
   (C)   This chapter applies to contested matters before the Planning and
Zoning Commission.
   (D)   This chapter appertains to contested matters arising out of orders,
decisions or determinations made by the Public Works Director or City Engineer
under
Title 4, Chapter 7 and §
11-02-06(1) of this code, and to appeals of the Building Official under the
Building, Plumbing, Electrical, Housing and Mechanical Codes as set forth in
Title 12 of this code, and decisions of the Fire Chief under the fire code, as
adopted in
Title 8, Chapter 13 of this code, except that in the event of any conflicts
between this chapter and the provisions named above in Titles
4,
8,
11 or
12 of this code, and/or the provisions contained in the codes therein adopted,
the provisions of those codes, titles and/or chapters shall control.
(Ord. 1918, passed 11-4-1991; Ord. 2685, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 01-05-07 LICENSE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   No license shall be granted until there has been an investigation by
the appropriate agency upon the application submitted pursuant to the terms and
conditions of the ordinance applicable. After the investigation, the
application shall be forwarded to the appropriate agency which, if provided by
ordinance of the city, shall act upon the license request, or the agency shall
submit its recommendations to the City Council for appropriate action. If the
agency recommends or if it determines the application be denied, the agency
shall state in writing:
      (1)   The statutes, ordinances and standards used in evaluating the
application;
      (2)   The reasons for the denial; and
      (3)   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain the
license, transfer or renewal thereof.
   (B)   When a licensee has made timely and sufficient application for the
renewal of a license, the existing license does not expire until the
application has been finally determined by the agency, and in the case that the
application is denied or in the case the terms of the new license are limited,
the license does not expire until the last day for seeking review of the agency
order.
   (C)   No agency revocation, suspension, annulment or withdrawal of any
license shall be effective until the agency shall have served personally and/or
by mail notifying the licensee of the intended action. The notice shall state
the facts or conduct upon which the intended action is based. The notice shall
also state that the licensee may show cause that the licensee is in compliance
with all lawful requirements and why the intended action should not be taken.
If good and sufficient evidence is not shown, the intended action becomes
effective on the fifteenth day after notice has been personally served or from
the date of mailing of the notice; which fact shall also be stated in the
notice. If the agency finds that the public health, safety or welfare
imperatively requires emergency action, the agency is empowered to order a
summary suspension of a license pending proceedings for revocation and/or other
intended action. The order and notice shall specify the facts and findings
relied upon for summary suspension.
(Ord. 1918, passed 11-4-1991)
§ 01-05-09 APPEALS TO THE CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Any action by an agency, when acting in a quasi-judicial capacity, or
when licensing, shall become final unless, within 15 days after notice as
provided in §
01-05-07, a notice of appeal to the City Council has been filed with the City
Clerk by a party.
   (B)   All interested parties, that is, all parties entitled to notice either
pursuant to city ordinance or pursuant to state statute, or persons who are
considered applicants under city ordinance or state statute, shall be entitled
to service of notice as set forth in §
01-05-11.
(Ord. 1918, passed 11-4-1991)
§ 01-05-11 CONTESTED CASES; NOTICE; HEARING; RECORDS.
   (A)   In a contested case or in an appeal of agency action, all parties
shall be afforded an opportunity for a hearing after reasonable notice.
   (B)   Notice:
      (1)   The notice shall include:
         (a)   A statement of time, place and nature of the hearing;
         (b)   A statement of the legal authority and jurisdiction under which
the hearing is to be held;
         (c)   A reference to the particular sections of the statutes and rule
involved; and
         (d)   A short and plain statement of the matters asserted.
      (2)   If the agency or other party is unable to state the matters in
detail at the time that the notice is served, the initial notice may be limited
to a statement of the issues involved. Thereafter, upon application, a more
definite and detailed statement shall be furnished.
   (C)   Opportunity shall be afforded all parties to respond and present
evidence and argument on all issues involved.
   (D)   Unless precluded by law, informal disposition may be made of any
contested case by stipulation, agreed settlement, consent, order or default.
   (E)   The record in a contested case shall include:
      (1)   Applications, staff reports and decisions of agency action which is
being appealed;
      (2)   All pleadings, motions, intermediate rulings;
      (3)   Evidence received or considered;
      (4)   A statement of matters officially noticed;
      (5)   Questions and offers of proof, objections, rulings thereon;
      (6)   Proposed findings and exceptions;
      (7)   Any decision, opinion or report by the officer presiding at the
hearing; and
      (8)   All staff memoranda or data submitted to the hearing officer or
members of the agency in connection with their consideration of the case.
   (F)   Any party may request in writing five days before any hearing, in a
contested case, that the oral proceedings thereof be taken in the form of
stenographic notes at their own expense.
   (G)   Findings of fact shall be based exclusively on the evidence and on
matters officially noticed.
(Ord. 1918, passed 11-4-1991)
§ 01-05-13 APPOINTMENT OF A HEARING EXAMINER.
   The City Council may appoint a hearing examiner to hear appeals to the City
Council made pursuant to this chapter.
   (A)   A hearing examiner shall fix a time and place for the beginning and
closing of the hearings and for the filing of the hearing examiner’s report to
the City Council. The hearing examiner shall have and exercise the power to
regulate the proceedings and every hearing before the examiner and to do all
acts and to take all measures necessary or proper for the efficient performance
of the examiner’s duty under this chapter. The hearing examiner shall have all
powers of the City Council vested upon the City Council for the hearing of
these matters and may rule upon the admissibility of evidence to put witnesses
under oath and may examine them and may call the parties to the action and
examine them upon oath.
   (B)   The hearing examiner shall prepare a report upon the contested case
submitted to the examiner and make findings of fact and conclusions of law as
appropriate and shall set them forth in a report separately stated. He or she
shall file the report with the City Clerk along with the recordings, minutes,
evidence and original exhibits made and received at the hearing. A copy of the
reports shall be served upon all parties to the contested case by the City
Clerk.
   (C)   Within 15 days of the date of the filing of the report of the hearing
examiner with the City Clerk, any party to the contested case may serve a
written objection to the findings, which original must be served with the City
Clerk copies, upon all parties to the contested case.
   (D)   In the event that no objections are filed, the City Council shall
adopt the report of the hearing examiner at the next regularly-scheduled
meeting of the City Council, and in the event that an objection is filed, the
City Council shall hear oral argument of the parties upon the record in support
of their objections, but unless specifically ordered by the City Council, no
new evidence shall be presented at such hearing. The Council shall decide the
matter upon the hearing examiner’s report, the oral arguments, written
objections submitted and upon the record of the case. The City Council shall
adopt the findings and conclusions and recommendations of the hearing examiner
unless those findings of fact are not based upon substantial evidence and/or
the conclusions of law are erroneous statements of law.
   (E)   This section shall apply to any board of appeals appointed by the City
Council pursuant to
Title 4, Chapter 7;
Title 8, Chapter 13; and §§
12-01-01 through
12-01-09;
Title 12, Chapters 3 through
9 and
Chapter 13 of this code. Said board of appeals shall be and are hereby
appointed as the duly appointed hearing examiners for all matters coming within
their jurisdiction and for all matters coming before the City Council as
specified in this chapter, and the procedure or process for governing hearings
of appeals by said boards shall be governed by this chapter, except in the
event of any conflicts between the provisions of this chapter with the specific
provisions in the titles, chapters and sections mentioned above, and in such
event, those titles, chapters and sections and the uniform codes therein
adopted shall control.
(Ord. 1918, passed 11-4-1991; Ord. 1990, passed 8-16-1993)
§ 01-05-15 RULES OF EVIDENCE, OFFICIAL NOTICE.
   In contested cases:
   (A)   Irrelevant, immaterial or unduly repetitious evidence shall be
excluded. The rules of evidence as applied in nonjury civil cases in the
District Court of this state shall be followed. When necessary to ascertain
facts not reasonably susceptible of proof under those rules, evidence not
admissible thereunder may be admitted, except where precluded by statute, if it
is of a type commonly relied upon by prudent persons in the conduct of their
affairs. Agencies shall give effect to the rules of privilege and shall be
noted in the record. Subject to these requirements, when a hearing will be
expedited and the interests of the parties will not be prejudiced
substantially, any part of the evidence may be received in written form;
   (B)   Documentary evidence may be received in the form of copies or excerpts
if the original is not readily available. Upon request, parties shall be given
an opportunity to compare the copy with the original;
   (C)   A party may conduct cross-examinations required for a full and true
disclosure of the facts; and
   (D)   Notice may be taken of judicially cognizable facts. In addition,
notice may be taken of generally recognized technical and scientific facts
within the agency’s special knowledge. Parties shall be notified either before
or during the hearing or by reference in preliminary reports or otherwise, of
the material notice, including any staff memoranda or data, and they shall be
afforded an opportunity to contest the material so noticed. The agency’s
experience, technical competence and specialized knowledge may be utilized in
the evaluation of the evidence.
(Ord. 1918, passed 11-4-1991)
§ 01-05-17 EXAMINATION OF EVIDENCE BY AGENCY.
   When in a contested case, a majority of the officials of the agency who are
to render the final decision have not heard the case or read the record, the
decision, if adverse to a party to the proceeding other than the agency itself,
shall not be made until a proposal for decision is served upon the parties and
an opportunity is afforded to each party adversely affected to file exceptions
and present briefs and oral arguments to the officials who are to render the
decision. The proposal for decision shall contain a statement of the reason
therefor and of each issue of fact or law necessary to the proposed decision,
prepared by the person who conducted the hearing or one who has read the
record. The parties, by written stipulation, may waive compliance with this
section.
(Ord. 1918, passed 11-4-1991)
§ 01-05-19 DECISIONS AND ORDERS.
   A final decision or order adverse to a party in a contested case shall be in
writing or stated in the record. A final decision shall include findings of
fact and conclusions of law as required by ordinance or state statute and shall
be separately stated. Findings of fact, if set forth in statutory language,
shall be accompanied by a concise and explicit statement of the underlying
facts supporting the findings. If, in accordance with agency rules, a party
submitted proposed findings of fact, the decision shall include a ruling upon
each proposed finding. Parties shall be notified either personally or by mail
of any decision or order. Upon request, a copy of the decision or order shall
be delivered or mailed forthwith to each party and to his or her attorney of
record.
(Ord. 1918, passed 11-4-1991)
§ 01-05-21 EX PARTE CONSULTATIONS.
   Unless required for the disposition of ex parte matters authorized by law,
members or employees of any agency assigned to render a decision or to make
findings of fact and conclusions of law in a contested case shall not
communicate, directly or indirectly, nor in connection with any issue of fact,
with any person or party, nor in connection with any issue of law, with any
party or his or her representative, except upon notice and opportunity for all
parties to participate. An agency member may communicate with other members of
the agency and may have the aid and advice of one or more personal assistants.
(Ord. 1918, passed 11-4-1991)
§ 01-05-23 RETENTION OF RECORDS.
   In all contested cases where there has been a hearing, a transcribable,
verbatim record of the proceeding shall be made and shall be kept for a period
of not less than six months after a final decision on the matter. Upon written
request, and within the time period provided above for retention of the record,
any person and/or party may have the record transcribed at his, her or their
expense. The City Council shall also provide for the keeping of the minutes of
the proceedings. Minutes shall be retained indefinitely, or as provided
otherwise by law.
(Ord. 1918, passed 11-4-1991)
CHAPTER 7: ELECTIONS
Section
   
01-07-01   Election precincts established
   
01-07-02   Electioneering policies
§ 01-07-01 ELECTION PRECINCTS ESTABLISHED.
   There are hereby established election precincts within the corporate limits
of the city. These precincts shall conform to the election precincts
established by the county. The county election precincts as they apply to the
corporate limits of the city are hereby adopted and incorporated by reference.
The official precinct boundaries shall be defined and set forth as determined
by the official records of the county which are hereby adopted and incorporated
by reference.
   (A)   Precinct names. The name of each such election precinct as hereby
established shall conform with the names established for the county election
precincts.
   (B)   Voting in designated precinct. Thereafter, at all municipal elections
and at all special municipal elections, such precincts as hereby created and
established shall be the places wherein all qualified electors living in the
area thereof respectively shall vote at such regular or special municipal
elections provided that such electors are qualified pursuant to the state code.
(Ord. 2188, passed 3-17-1997)
§ 01-07-02 ELECTIONEERING POLICIES.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this chapter, ELECTIONEERING will include the
posting, use or distribution of political signs, cards, placards or literature,
including flags, and anything similar that is tangible and designed to call
one’s attention to a certain candidate and/or proposition.
      (2)   The following shall be exempt from electioneering: wearing of
shirts, caps, hats, facial masks, buttons or similar gear that reflect a
political message. With this preface as a foundation to understand what
ELECTIONEERING is defined as, the city hereby declares the following as it
pertains to permitted but restricted electioneering conduct near its official
polling sites: In compliance with Idaho Code § 18-2318, on the day of any
primary, general or special election, there shall be no electioneering “within
a polling place or any building in which an election is being held, or within
100 feet thereof.”
      (3)   The city interprets this provision to mean that there can be no
electioneering on property less than 100 feet to the polling sites’ entry door;
but the city could establish a (reasonable) distance to be more than 100 feet,
especially given the current logistics of perimeter streets, paved parking lots
and the like.
   (B)   There shall be no signage, banner and/or any type of political
expression posted on, in or over the city right-of-way, including any
attachments to fencing or landscape in that right-of-way.
   (C)   There shall be no signage, banner and/or any other type of political
expression posted on, in or over any premises as owned by the city, including,
but not limited to, City Hall premises, library premises and Police Department
premises.
   (D)   There will be no set limit on signage on private property, but the
city strongly encourages a respectful and reasonable limit be evident per
political candidate and/or proposition.
   (E)   To more fully establish a respectful voting experience, as well as
promoting traffic-pedestrian safety between the incoming voting public and
electioneers, the following shall be imposed.
      (1)   Electioneering representatives shall not approach moving or non-
moving vehicles as they are in the process of participating in the election
process.
      (2)   There shall be no use of loudspeakers, microphones, megaphones,
amplified devices or any other similar equipment not defined in division (A)
above as electioneering on city owned or private property at any time before,
during or after the voting period. It is deemed that such loud amplification
messaging is distracting enough that may risk traffic accidents.
   (F)   It is expected that all participants in the election process will act
and abide by these reasonable measures in good faith. Should there be a
perceived violation, the city will simply inform the person of the proper code
of electioneering conduct. It is stated that if the violation persists, then a
verbal warning may be issued; then if the violation still continues, then a
written warning may be issued, as well.
   (G)   For anyone that blatantly and intentionally continues to violate the
terms of these electioneering policies beyond the escalating steps just cited,
such person(s) may then be subject to a fine not to exceed $100 per occurrence.
   (H)   The electioneering policies shall be enforced in close coordination
with the City Police Department, or other staff as may be assigned by them.
   (I)   It is declared and ordained that any and all candidates, their
representatives and any proponent of propositions, shall be provided a copy of
these policies; either through being hand-delivered or through electronic
transmission (as confirmed through this process). Also, the provisions of these
electioneering regulations shall be posted in the city’s official website at a
reasonable tenure prior to the start of the voting period.
   (J)   It is perceived that not all electioneering issues can be documented
since there is a plethora of electioneering variables to factor in. Therefore,
the City Clerk’s office shall be delegated the authority to use his or her
wisdom and experience, as well as consult as often as necessary with the City
Attorney’s office, to resolve all matters or conduct that may challenge the
electioneering policies shown herein.
(Ord. 3467, passed 11-15-2022)
CHAPTER 9: ORDINANCES
Section
   
01-09-01   Presentation
   
01-09-03   Passage
   
01-09-05   Endorsement
   
01-09-07   Date of passage
   
01-09-09   Effective date
§ 01-09-01 PRESENTATION.
   All ordinances of a general or permanent nature shall be written or printed
and presented to the Council by a member, at a regular or special meeting.
§ 01-09-03 PASSAGE.
   Every ordinance shall be read on three different days, two readings of which
may be by title only and one reading of which shall be in full, unless one-half
plus one of the members of the full Council shall dispense with the rule.
Ordinances shall be open to discussion and amendment and may be referred to a
committee and may be continued to the next meeting of the City Council unless
by a vote of the City Council some other disposition is made. On final passage,
the yeas and nays shall be called and recorded and a concurrence of a majority
of the Council shall be required.
(Ord. 1276, passed 7-17-1972)
§ 01-09-05 ENDORSEMENT.
   When any ordinance is passed, it shall be signed by the Clerk, and the date
of its passage by the Council shall be added thereto, and it shall, within
three days thereafter, be presented to the Mayor, or in case of his or her
absence from the city, to the President of the Council for his or her approval.
If he or she approves the same, he or she shall attach his or her signature
thereto.
§ 01-09-07 DATE OF PASSAGE.
   An ordinance shall be considered passed on the date of its first approval by
the Mayor, and in case of his or her veto, on the date of the passage of such
ordinance over such veto, and in failure of the Mayor to sign or veto an
ordinance, on the date of the next regular meeting after such ordinance shall
have been presented to him or her.
§ 01-09-09 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   All ordinances shall take effect and be in force from and after their
passage, approval and publication. Publication shall be made in the designated
official newspaper.
Cross-reference:
   Provisions relating to publication, see §
01-11-03
CHAPTER 11: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
01-11-01   Official seal
   
01-11-03   Official newspaper
   
01-11-05   City limits
§ 01-11-01 OFFICIAL SEAL.
   (A)   Design. The corporate seal of the city shall be circular in form with
inner and outer circles. The outer circle shall be one and seven-eighths inches
in diameter, and the inner circle one and three-sixteenths inches in diameter.
It shall bear, upon the space between the two circles, the words “City of
Caldwell, Canyon County, Idaho,” and upon the space within the inner circle the
words “Incorporated Jan. 15, 1890.”
   (B)   Adoption. The seal described in division (A) above is hereby adopted
as the seal of this city.
   (C)   Facsimile. The facsimile of the seal is shown below.
§ 01-11-03 OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER.
   The Idaho Press Tribune, a newspaper printed and published in the county, is
hereby declared to be the official newspaper of the city, and such notices,
declarations, ordinances and other matters requiring official publication shall
be published in said newspaper.
(Ord. 1762, passed 12-7-1987)
§ 01-11-05 CITY LIMITS.
   The city limits shall be as shown on the official city map, which map shall
be on file in the office of the City Engineer at all times.
CHAPTER 13: SURPLUS PROPERTY
Section
   
01-13-01   Surplus property; authorization; declaration; disposal; prohibitions
   
01-13-03   Sale at retail
§ 01-13-01 SURPLUS PROPERTY; AUTHORIZATION; DECLARATION; DISPOSAL;
PROHIBITIONS.
   No employee of the city is authorized to sell, transfer or give away
personal or real property of the city except in accordance with this chapter
and state law. The unauthorized sale or transfer of property of the city by any
employee, other than by discarding as waste material at the sanitary landfill
or similar approved depository for refuse, shall constitute a misdemeanor,
punishable as provided in Idaho Code §§ 18-113 and 50-302(1), as amended, in
addition to any other civil or equitable remedy which might be available to the
city or criminal charge that might be appropriate under the circumstances. Only
the City Council has authority to declare property, whether real or personal,
to be surplus. The City Clerk shall coordinate the disposal of all surplus
property, including land, buildings, equipment and other city assets no longer
required for city use, in the manner which is in the best interests of the city
and which is consistent with the requirements of law.
   (A)   Declaration of surplus; disposal of personal property. For an item or
batch of items estimated by the City Clerk to be valued at less than $1,000,
and subject to the prohibitions set forth in division (E) below, the City Clerk
shall have full discretion on when and how such an item, or batch of items,
shall be disposed of following declaration by the City Council that such
property is surplus, unless specific dispositive instructions are given by the
City Council in that declaration. Surplus personal property estimated by the
City Clerk to have a value of $1,000 or more shall be disposed of in accordance
with the provisions set forth in division (D) below. The City Council may, in
any resolution declaring personal property to be surplus, direct the method of
disposition. If no method of disposition is set forth in the resolution, such
property shall be disposed of in any manner consistent with this chapter and
state and federal law.
   (B)   Declaration of surplus; disposal of real property. When appropriate,
the city shall declare city owned real property, including hangars located at
the Caldwell Executive Airport, to be surplus and dispose of such property in
accordance with the requirements and procedures set forth in Idaho Code § 50-
1403.
   (C)   Transfer of surplus property to other government agencies. When
appropriate and in the city’s best interest, the City Clerk shall recommend to
the Mayor and City Council the transfer or donation of surplus property to
other government agencies in accordance with the requirements of the state
code.
   (D)   Disposition of surplus property. The City Clerk may dispose of
personal property through a sale or may, in the alternative, dispose of said
property through exchange for property to be acquired by the city.
      (1)   All sales of surplus personal property, except as specifically
provided for herein, shall be made through a public sale or auction and shall
be preceded by some form of public notice, which shall include, at a minimum, a
posting for at least three days on the city’s internet website. Except where
such procedures or requirements are set forth in the state code, decisions
concerning the procedures to be followed for the sale and any additional notice
beyond that required above shall be made by the City Clerk.
      (2)   If any sale or auction of surplus personal property fails to
produce a buyer at a minimum price set by the City Council, if a minimum price
was set, or, if no bids are received, the City Clerk shall proceed to dispose
of the property at his or her discretion, subject to the prohibitions set forth
in division (E) below, in any appropriate manner designed to maximize the
financial return to the city, unless otherwise instructed by the City Council
in its resolution declaring such property to be surplus.
      (3)   In the event items of surplus personal property are determined to
have no salable value because of condition, obsolescence or inappropriateness
of use for the general public, the City Clerk shall dispose of such items in
any manner appropriate, subject to the prohibitions set forth in division (E)
below.
      (4)   When real or personal property is purchased, donated or otherwise
conveyed to the city and federal funding designated for the purpose of
assisting low to moderate income persons with decent, safe, affordable housing
opportunities, has been utilized to obtain or improve the property, it may be
offered for public sale. If the property is not sold through a public sale, the
property may be sold, donated or otherwise conveyed directly to a low to
moderate income person as approved by the City Clerk and housing program
administrator. In either event, the sale or conveyance must be consistent with
the requirements of the applicable federal regulations under which the property
was obtained initially or improved.
      (5)   All proceeds from the sale or auction of an item or batch of items
of surplus property shall be deposited into the miscellaneous revenue account
of the department from which such item or batch of items originated.
   (E)   Parties prohibited from purchasing surplus property. It shall be
unlawful for any of the following persons to purchase surplus property at any
sale or auction: Mayor, City Clerk, members of the City Council, appointed
officials or department heads. It shall likewise be unlawful for any
partnership or entity in which any of the foregoing persons have any interest
to purchase such property. No employer, business partner, business associate or
immediate family member of one of the aforementioned persons shall be permitted
to purchase surplus property at any sale or auction. Finally, no city employee
involved in the sale of any specific item or batch of items of surplus property
shall be permitted to purchase said property. A knowing violation of this
prohibition shall constitute a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in Idaho
Code §§ 18-113 and 50-302(1), as amended.
(Ord. 2887, passed 11-21-2011; Ord. 3410, passed 12-6-2022)
§ 01-13-03 SALE AT RETAIL.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, the city may sell personal
property to employees and members of the public at retail at city facilities
and events. For purposes of this section, FACILITIES AND EVENTS shall include,
but shall not be limited to, vending machines, snack bars, gift shops, pro
shops or other marketing methods catering to city employees or members of the
public utilizing city facilities or participation in city sponsored events.
(Ord. 2887, passed 11-21-2011)
TITLE 2: GOVERNING BODIES AND ADVISORY BOARDS
   Chapter
      
1.   COUNCIL
      
3.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
5.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
6.   CITY APPOINTED COMMISSIONS, COMMITTEES AND BOARDS
      
7.   LIBRARY BOARD
      
9.   GOLF COURSE BOARD
      
11.   MAYOR’S YOUTH ADVISORY COUNCIL
      
13.   HOUSING AUTHORITY
      
15.   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
      
17.   CITY HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
      
19.   CITY TRAFFIC COMMISSION
      
21.   TRUSTEES OF THE CITY EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN TRUST AGREEMENT
      
25.   AUDIT COMMITTEE
      
27.   CITY EXECUTIVE AIRPORT ADVISORY BOARD
      
29.   SENIOR CITIZEN’S CENTER COMMISSION
      
31.   FRIENDS OF THE CALDWELL DEPOT
      
32.   PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION
      
33.   INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
      
35.   YOUTH MASTER PLAN COMMITTEE
      
37.   DESIGN REVIEW COMMISSION
      
38.   DOWNTOWN PARKING ADVISORY BOARD
CHAPTER 1: COUNCIL
Section
   
02-01-01   Duties
   
02-01-03   Terms of office
   
02-01-05   Vacancy; how filled
   
02-01-07   Meetings
   
02-01-09   Council President
§ 02-01-01 DUTIES.
   Members of the Council, the legislative and policy-making branch of the
municipality, shall devote as much of their time to the duties of their office
as an efficient and faithful discharge thereof may require. They shall attend
all meetings of the Council unless lawfully excused therefrom by the Mayor or
by a majority of the remaining members and perform all duties which by the
nature of their office they should reasonably perform, such as the passing of
ordinances, resolutions and the investigation and study of work done for the
municipality according to the committees upon which they may be severally
appointed by the Mayor.
§ 02-01-03 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The City Council does, by this action, find that the citizens of the city
would be best served by providing for the election of Council members by
designated Council seats pursuant to Idaho Code § 50-707. The city shall have a
City Council composed of six members. During each general city election, three
of the six members of the City Council shall stand for re-election for a four-
year term of office. Each candidate for the City Council shall meet the
residency requirements of the city as set out in the state code. The City Clerk
shall assign a number for each of the six Council seats currently filled by
existing Council members. The assignment of each numbered Council seat shall be
at random with the method of random selection to be determined by the City
Clerk. Candidates for Council seats, as established by this section, shall file
for a designated Council seat in the manner prescribed by the state code. Each
Council member shall stand for election, after filing for candidacy as required
by this chapter, against other qualified candidates pursuant to and for the
Council seats as created by this section at the next general municipal election
immediately prior to the termination of the Council member’s term of office.
The candidate with the highest number of votes shall be declared elected.
(Ord. 1830, passed 9-25-1989; Ord. 3263, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 02-01-05 VACANCY; HOW FILLED.
   In the event an office of Council member shall become vacant, through death,
change of residence or for any other cause, the Mayor shall appoint, with the
approval of the Council, a resident of the city to fill the unexpired portion
of the term, to serve until the next general election, at which time, the
unexpired term shall be filled by regular election.
(Ord. 2701, passed 9-17-2007)
§ 02-01-07 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Time and place. The Council shall hold regular sessions at the City
Hall located at 205 South 6th Avenue, on the first and third Monday of each
month, starting at 6:00 p.m.
   (B)   Meetings open to the public. All meetings of the Council shall be open
to the public, except that executive sessions may be closed by the presiding
officer pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-2345.
(Ord. 1837, passed 1-2-1990; Ord. 2234, passed 5-18-1998; Ord. 3409, passed 4-
4-2022; Ord. 3448, passed 8-18-2022; Ord. 3609, passed 6-18-2024)
§ 02-01-09 COUNCIL PRESIDENT.
   At the time of taking office, the Council shall elect one of its members as
President of the Council, who shall preside at all meetings of the Council and
perform all other duties of the Mayor in the absence of the Mayor. In the
absence of the President, the Council shall elect one of its members to occupy
his or her place temporarily, who shall be styled acting President of the
Council, and the President and acting President, when occupying the place of
Mayor, shall have the same privileges as other members of the Council and all
actions of the President and acting President while so acting, shall be binding
upon the Council and upon the municipality as if performed by the Mayor.
CHAPTER 3: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
02-03-01   Department created
   
02-03-03   Duties
   
02-03-05   Rules and regulations
Cross-reference:
   Provisions on the Chief of Police, see
Title 3, Chapter 17
§ 02-03-01 DEPARTMENT CREATED.
   There is hereby created a Police Department which shall consist of the Chief
of Police and such other personnel as may be provided by the City Council.
§ 02-03-03 DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of all members of the Police Department to see to the
enforcement of all of the laws of the city and all statutes applicable therein
and to preserve order and prevent infractions of the law and arrest violators
thereof.
§ 02-03-05 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of the Police Department may make or prescribe such rules and
regulations as he or she shall deem advisable. Such rules, when approved by the
Mayor and Council, shall be binding on all Police Department members. Said
rules and regulations may cover the conduct of the members, uniforms and
equipment to be worn or carried, hours of service, vacations and all other
matters necessary or desirable for the better efficiency of the Department.
CHAPTER 5: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
02-05-01   Department created
   
02-05-03   Department membership
   
02-05-05   Chief may prescribe traffic limits at fire
   
02-05-07   Fire prevention
Cross-reference:
   Regulations on the Fire Chief, see
Title 3, Chapter 19
§ 02-05-01 DEPARTMENT CREATED.
   There is hereby created a Fire Department that shall consist of a Fire Chief
and such other personnel as may be provided for by the Council.
§ 02-05-03 DEPARTMENT MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   Chief may appoint deputies. The Fire Chief or acting Fire Chief is
hereby empowered to appoint such assistant Chiefs as he or she shall deem
advisable during any fire, and any such assistants shall have and exercise all
the powers of the regular firefighters of the city during the progress of such
fires.
   (B)   Volunteer members. Any volunteer members of the Fire Department shall
conduct themselves in the same manner and under the same rules and regulations
as regular members of the Department. They shall respond to all fire calls
according to a schedule prescribed by the Chief of the Fire Department, and
they shall attend all meetings and drills called by the Chief, according to the
standard operating procedures of the Department as established by the Fire
Chief.
   (C)   Duties.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of all members of the Fire Department to
provide for the immediate answering of all fire calls and to fight all fires in
the best and most modern available methods. Members shall see to the care and
maintenance of all firefighting equipment and have such equipment in workable
condition as nearly as possible at all times.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of all officers and employees of the Fire
Department to attend to the duties of their respective positions under the
orders of the Chief of the Fire Department, or in case of his or her absence or
inability to serve, an assistant Chief of the Fire Department, or in case of
the absence or inability of any of these to serve, then of the Battalion Chief
of the Fire Department.
      (3)   All members shall strictly carry out all orders given them as above
set out and shall at all times be under the direct supervision or management of
the Chief of the Fire Department or the officer acting in place of the Chief,
by reason of the absence or inability of said Chief.
§ 02-05-05 CHIEF MAY PRESCRIBE TRAFFIC LIMITS AT FIRE.
   (A)   Whenever a fire shall occur in the city, the Fire Chief or acting Fire
Chief is hereby empowered during the continuance of such fire to prescribe the
limits within which it shall be unlawful for any person to come, excepting
members of said fire company, and such other persons as may be specifically
admitted by said Chief or acting Chief, and it shall be the duty of such Fire
Chief to plainly indicate such limits, either by stretching a rope thereon or
erecting some other barrier sufficient to appraise the people of such limits.
It shall be unlawful for any person other than those above specified to enter
within such limits at any time until same are removed.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to ride or drive
any vehicle across any hose belonging to the Fire Department.
§ 02-05-07 FIRE PREVENTION.
   Every possible action shall be taken by all members of the Fire Department
to eliminate fire hazards and to provide for the fire prevention methods and
operations within the city.
CHAPTER 6: CITY APPOINTED COMMISSIONS, COMMITTEES AND BOARDS
Section
   
02-06-01   Purpose
   
02-06-03   Appointments and removals
§ 02-06-01 PURPOSE.
   The city has several boards and commissions which operate in an advisory
capacity to the Mayor and City Council. Board members/commissioners are
generally made up of community members who serve in a volunteer capacity, with
certain membership requirements depending on the board or commission set forth
in the state code or in the specific city code governing the same. Appointments
to boards, commissions or committees are made by the Mayor, with the consent
and approval of the City Council.
(Ord. 3492, passed 3-7-2023)
§ 02-06-03 APPOINTMENTS AND REMOVALS.
   (A)   Pursuant to this code and the state code, commission, committee and/or
board members are qualified, selected and appointed for a specified length of
time as determined by each code section specific to that specific commission,
committee or board. These appointments are typically between three and five
years. Appointments shall be made by the Mayor with the consent and approval of
the City Council.
   (B)   Unless expressly limited or prohibited by city or state code,
commission, committee and/or board members may be removed at any time during
their specified term by the Mayor with consent and approval of the City
Council. The absence in this code or the state code of provisions governing
removal shall not constitute express limitation or prohibition. In the event
the state code does provide an express prohibition or limitation on the ability
to remove members of any commission, committee and/or board, the City Council,
by the adoption of this chapter, does intend to embrace all remaining and
additional authority related to the removal of members not expressly governed
by such state code.
(Ord. 3492, passed 3-7-2023)
CHAPTER 7: LIBRARY BOARD
Section
   
02-07-01   Board created
   
02-07-03   Terms of office
   
02-07-05   Duties
§ 02-07-01 BOARD CREATED.
   There is hereby created a Library Board which shall be composed of five
library Trustees appointed by the Council from among the citizens of the city.
One member of the Council shall be an ex officio member of the Board.
§ 02-07-03 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   Such Trustees shall hold office for five years from the date of appointment
and until their successors are appointed, but upon their first appointment,
they shall divide themselves at their first meeting, by lot, into five classes:
one member shall form the first class and shall serve for one year from the
date of appointment; one member shall form the second class and shall serve for
two years from the date of appointment; one member shall form the third class
and shall serve for three years from the date of appointment; one member shall
form the fourth class and shall serve for four years from the date of
appointment; and one member shall form the fifth class and shall serve for five
years from the date of appointment. All vacancies shall be reported to the
Council within five days by the Trustees and shall be filled by appointment in
the same manner as appointments are originally made. Appointments to complete
an unexpired term shall be for the balance of the term only.
§ 02-07-05 DUTIES.
   The Library Board shall be responsible for the operation and maintenance of
the city library. They shall perform all duties and have all powers granted to
such Board by state statute.
CHAPTER 9: GOLF COURSE BOARD
Section
   
02-09-01   Board created; purpose
   
02-09-03   Terms of office
   
02-09-05   Organization and bylaws
§ 02-09-01 BOARD CREATED; PURPOSE.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Golf Course Board which shall consist of the
President of the City Men’s Golf Association, the President of the City Women’s
Golf Association, the President of the City Junior Golf Association and between
seven and ten additional individuals who shall be appointed by the Mayor, with
the consent of the Council. One of the members so appointed shall be a member
of the Council, and all remaining members shall be active golf players.
Appointment of one or more youth participants in the City Junior Golf
Association as members of the Golf Course Board is welcome and encouraged. All
shall serve without salary.
   (B)   The purpose of the City Golf Course Board shall be to advise and make
recommendations to the Mayor and City Council on matters pertaining to the
operation and maintenance of the city’s two municipal golf courses: Fairview
Golf Course and Purple Sage Golf Course.
(Ord. 3188, passed 3-4-2019)
§ 02-09-03 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The term of the respective members of the Golf Course Board shall be
as follows: the President of the City Men’s Golf Association, the President of
the City Women’s Golf Association and the President of the City Junior Golf
Association shall serve for their respective terms in said offices. The member
appointed from the Council shall serve for a period of two years, or until the
end of his or her term as a Council member, and the remaining members shall be
appointed for terms of four years, excepting that there shall not be more than
two members whose terms shall expire in any one year. Accordingly, appointments
may be made for terms less than four years in order that not more than two
members’ terms expire in any one year. A member may be reappointed to serve
consecutive terms.
   (B)   All vacancies, except the President of the City Men’s Golf
Association, the President of the City Women’s Golf Association and the
President of the City Junior Golf Association, shall be filled by appointment
in the same manner as appointments were originally made, for the unexpired term
of the vacancy. In the event of a vacancy, Board members may recommend to the
Chairperson names of possible Board members, and, upon a vote of the Board, the
name of the candidate receiving the greatest number of votes shall be
recommended to the Mayor and Council for appointment to fill said vacancy.
(Ord. 3188, passed 3-4-2019)
§ 02-09-05 ORGANIZATION AND BYLAWS.
   In lieu of any previously adopted bylaws, and to the extent not addressed
through other provisions within this chapter, the following rules and
regulations shall govern the basic business of the City Golf Course Board.
   (A)   Officers. At its last regular meeting of the year, the Board shall
elect its own Chairperson, Vice Chairperson and Secretary, to serve in said
offices for one-year terms, commencing January 1 through December 31 of the
following year, and may create and fill such other offices as it may determine
to be necessary.
   (B)   Meetings; quorum. At its last regular meeting of the year, the Board
shall determine its meeting schedule for the following year including location,
frequency and dates of the meetings to be held. Additional meetings may be
called by the Chairperson, city staff or at the request of the Mayor upon at
least seven days’ written notice to the members of the Board. The Chairperson
will prepare the agenda for each meeting. Complete minutes shall be kept by the
Secretary. Following each meeting, copies of the minutes shall be distributed
by the Secretary to each member of the Board. A quorum shall consist of one-
half or more of the appointed members of the Board.
(Ord. 3188, passed 3-4-2019; Ord. 3405, passed 3-21-2022; Ord. 3422, passed 6-
20-2022)
CHAPTER 11: MAYOR’S YOUTH ADVISORY COUNCIL
Section
   
02-11-01   Purpose
   
02-11-03   Bylaws
§ 02-11-01 PURPOSE.
   The Mayor’s Youth Advisory Council exists as the result of the recognition
by the city that the youth of the city constitute an underutilized source of
ideas, knowledge and experience with respect to the city and its affairs. The
Mayor’s Youth Advisory Council has been created in an effort to facilitate the
input of ideas, knowledge and experience from the youth of the city, for the
improvement of the city as a whole.
(Ord. 2782, passed 1-5-2009)
§ 02-11-03 BYLAWS.
   Written bylaws, consistent with this chapter and other laws of the state for
the transaction of the business of the Mayor’s Youth Advisory Council, shall be
adopted.
(Ord. 2782, passed 1-5-2009)
CHAPTER 13: HOUSING AUTHORITY
Section
   
02-13-01   Created
   
02-13-03   Regulations of the Housing Authority
§ 02-13-01 CREATED.
   There is hereby created the City Housing Authority.
§ 02-13-03 REGULATIONS OF THE HOUSING AUTHORITY.
   The City Housing Authority has membership, powers and is regulated generally
pursuant to Idaho Code §§ 50-1901 et seq.
CHAPTER 15: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
Section
   
02-15-01   Commission information
   
02-15-03   Powers and duties
   
02-15-05   Appeals to Council
   
02-15-07   Reference to Planning and/or Zoning Commission
§ 02-15-01 COMMISSION INFORMATION.
   (A)   Commission created. There is hereby created a Commission to be known
and designated as the Planning and Zoning Commission. Said Planning and Zoning
Commission is hereby created pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-6504 which may act
with the full authority of the governing board, excluding the authority to
adopt ordinances or to finally approve land subdivisions.
   (B)   Membership. 
      (1)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall consist of not less than
three nor more than seven voting members, all appointed by the Mayor and
confirmed by majority vote of the City Council. If the area of impact has been
properly established, persons living within the delimited area of impact shall
be entitled to representation on the Planning and Zoning Commission of the city
of impact. Such representation shall reflect the proportion of population
living within the area of impact relative to the population living within the
city.
      (2)   An appointed member of the Commission representing the city must
have resided in the city for at least two years prior to appointment and must
remain a resident of the city during service on the Commission.
      (3)   An appointed member of the Commission representing the impact area
must have resided in the impact area for at least two years prior to
appointment and must remain a resident of the impact area during service on the
Commission.
      (4)   For purposes of determining whether a person meets the two-year
residency requirements for service as a member of the Planning and Zoning
Commission, the boundaries for the city and impact area in existence at the
date of appointment shall be considered as having existed, unchanged, for the
two years preceding the date of appointment.
      (5)   The term of office for members shall not be less than three years,
nor more than six years, however terms shall be staggered. No person shall
serve more than two full consecutive terms without specific concurrence by two-
thirds of the Council adopted by motion and recorded in the minutes. Vacancies
occurring otherwise than through the expiration of terms shall be filled in the
same manner as the original appointment.
      (6)   Members may be removed for cause by a majority vote of the City
Council. Removal for cause is a legal term referring to the removal of an
individual from a position due to specific, justifiable reasons. It signifies
that the removal is not arbitrary, but is based on a demonstrable breach of
duty, misconduct issues that undermine the integrity or functionality of the
position or a failure to perform essential functions.
      (7)   Members shall be selected without respect to political affiliation
and may receive mileage and per diem compensation as provided by the City
Council.
   (C)   Organization. The Commission shall elect a Chairperson and create and
fill any other office it may deem necessary. The Commission may establish
subcommittees, advisory committees or neighborhood groups to advise and assist
in carrying out responsibility under this chapter and provision of the state
code. The Commission may appoint nonvoting, ex officio advisors as may be
deemed necessary.
   (D)   Rules, records and meetings. 
      (1)   Written organization papers or bylaws consistent with this chapter,
the state code and other laws of the state for the transaction of business of
the Commission shall be adopted.
      (2)   All members will be subject to a code of conduct.
      (3)   A record of meetings, hearings, resolutions, studies, findings,
permits and actions taken shall be maintained. All meetings and records shall
be open to the public.
      (4)   At least one regular meeting shall be held each month for not less
than nine months in a year.
      (5)   A majority of currently appointed voting members of the Commission
shall constitute a quorum.
   (E)   Expenditures and staff. With approval of the City Council through the
legally required budgetary process, the Commission may receive and expend
funds, goods and services from the federal government or agencies and
instrumentalities of state or local government or from civic and private
sources and may contract with these entities and provide information and
reports as necessary to secure aid. Expenditures by the Commission shall be
within the amounts appropriated by the City Council. Within such limits, any
Commission is authorized to hire or contract with employees and technical
advisors, including, but not limited to, planners, engineers, architects and
legal assistants.
(Ord. 1455, passed 2-7-1978; Ord. 1867, passed 9-4-1990; Ord. 2023, passed 2-
22-1994; Ord. 2776, passed 12-15-2008; Ord. 3470, passed 12-20-2022; Ord. 3738,
passed 2-17-2026)
§ 02-15-03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The planning process.
      (1)   As part of the planning process, the Commission shall provide for
citizen meetings, hearings, surveys or other methods to obtain advice on the
planning process, plan and implementation. The Commission may also conduct
informational meetings and consult with the public officials and agencies,
public utility companies and civic, educational, professional or other
organizations. As part of the planning process, the Commission shall endeavor
to promote a public interest in and understanding of the Commission’s
activities.
      (2)   The Commission may, at any time, make recommendations to the City
Council concerning the plan, planning process or implementation of the plan.
   (B)   Entry powers. With the consent of the owner, the Commission and its
members, officers and employees, in the performance of their functions, may
enter upon any land and make examination and surveys and place and maintain
necessary monuments and marks thereon.
   (C)   Judicial process. The Commission shall have the right to seek judicial
process, as may be necessary to enable it to fulfill its functions.
   (D)   Additional duties as assigned. The Commission may perform such
additional duties as may be assigned by the City Council.
(Ord. 1376, passed 4-20-1976)
§ 02-15-05 APPEALS TO COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall hear all appeals from a decision of the Planning and
Zoning Commission concerning special use permits and variances and shall have
the power to permit special exceptions to the terms of the zoning regulations.
The Council may uphold, reverse or modify the action of the Commission. All
decisions of the Council to uphold, reverse or modify a decision of the
Planning and Zoning Commission concerning special use permits and variances
shall be by a majority vote of the presiding Council members. It is not
necessary for all six Council members to be in attendance at the Council
meeting when an appeal is presented. In the event of a tie vote, the Mayor may
elect to vote in order to break a tie.
(Ord. 1494, passed 6-20-1978; Ord. 2030, passed 6-20-1994)
§ 02-15-07 REFERENCE TO PLANNING AND/OR ZONING COMMISSION.
   All reference to planning and/or zoning commissions contained in this code
shall be interpreted to refer to the Planning and Zoning Commission herein
created.
(Ord. 2852, passed 12-20-2010)
CHAPTER 17: CITY HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION
Section
   
02-17-01      Purpose
   
02-17-02      Definitions
   
02-17-03      Historic Preservation Commission
   
02-17-04      Procedures; rules; meetings; officers
   
02-17-05      Powers and duties of Commission
   
02-17-06      Funding
   
02-17-07      Designation of local historical districts
   
02-17-08      Designation of historic landmarks
   
02-17-09      Certificate of appropriateness required
   
02-17-10      Application requirements; notice; action; appeal for Commission
and staff level applications
   
02-17-11      Findings for granting a certificate of appropriateness
   
02-17-11-01   Alterations; findings
   
02-17-11-02   Demolition or relocation; findings
   
02-17-11-03   Change in zoning classification or change in use; findings
   
02-17-11-04   New construction; findings
   
02-17-12      Procedure for demolition or change in use of historic landmark
   
02-17-13      Ordinary repairs; public safety
   
02-17-14      Acquisition of property
   
02-17-15      Acquisition of historic easements
   
02-17-16      Exemption from fire or building codes
   
02-17-17      Penalties; remedies
§ 02-17-01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the educational, cultural
and economic welfare of the city by engaging in a comprehensive program of
historic preservation to promote, preserve and protect historic buildings,
structures, sites and monuments which serve as visible reminders of the
historical, archeological, architectural, educational and cultural heritage of
the city.
   (B)   It is the further purpose of this chapter to allow for the social and
historical advantages of the city to promote the use and conservation of such
property; to stabilize and improve property values in local historic districts;
to promote the creation of local historic districts; and to encourage new
buildings and developments that will be harmonious with the existing
historical, archeological and architectural structures, sites and monuments.
(Ord. 2905, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 02-17-02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. See §
10-03-11.
   ACQUISITION. The act or process of acquiring fee title or interest other
than fee title of real property (including acquisition of development rights or
remainder interest).
   ADDITION. Any construction that increases the size of an existing building
or structure in terms of site coverage, height, length, width or gross floor
area, including an additional floor.
   ALTERATIONS. Any act or process that changes one or more exterior features
of a building or site or any feature or object on a site.
   BUILDING. For purposes of designation, a resource created principally to
shelter any form of human activity.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS. The document issued by the City Historic
Preservation Commission before any buildings, structures or accessory
buildings/structures are erected, altered, restored, moved or demolished within
a local historic district; before any alterations are made to the exterior of
sites or existing structures within a local historic district; before any
changes of use, zoning changes, home occupation permits, special use permits
and/or temporary use permits are allowed within a local historic district.
   CHARACTER DEFINING FACADE. Any elevation that contains features that help to
define a structure’s significance.
   COMMISSION. The Caldwell Historic Preservation Commission.
   CONTRIBUTING. A contributing building, site, structure or object that adds
to the historic architectural qualities, historic associations or archeological
values for which a property is significant because:
      (1)   It was present during the period of significance and possesses
historic integrity reflecting its character at that time or is capable of
yielding important information about the period; or
      (2)   It individually meets the National Register eligibility criteria.
For inventory purposes, PRIMARY shall be used synonymously with CONTRIBUTING.
   COUNCIL. The Caldwell City Council.
   DEMOLITION. Any act or process that permanently, substantially destroys or
razes any building, site, structure or object in whole or in part.
   DEMOLITION BY NEGLECT. Any act or omission that destroys or contributes to
the destruction of a building.
   EXTERIOR FEATURE. The architecture, size, location, type, style, kind,
texture, design, general arrangement and/or material of a building, site,
structure or object, including, but not limited to, windows, doors, exterior
light fixtures, roofs, signs, appurtenant fixtures and fencing, all as visible
from public right-of-way.
   HISTORIC EASEMENT. Any easement, restriction, covenant or condition running
with the land designed and designated to preserve, maintain and enhance all or
part of the existing places of historical, architectural, archeological,
educational or cultural significance.
   HISTORIC LANDMARK. A district, site, building, structure or object that
possesses exceptional significance in history, architecture, engineering,
archeology or culture at the national, state or local level and has been
designated as a historic landmark through the public hearing process outlined
herein and subsequent local ordinance.
   HISTORIC PRESERVATION. The research, protection, restoration and
rehabilitation of buildings, sites, structures, objects or districts
significant in the history, architecture, archeology or culture of the state,
its communities or the nation.
   HISTORIC PROPERTY. Any building, structure, area or site that is significant
in the history, architecture, archeology or culture of this state, its
communities or the nation. A property can be an individual site or a district
consisting of multiple buildings, sites, structures or objects.
   IMPROVEMENT. A valuable addition made to the property (usually real estate)
or amelioration in its condition, amounting to more than mere repairs or
replacement, costing labor or capital, and intended to enhance its value,
beauty or utility or to adapt it for new or further purposes.
   INTEGRITY. The ability of a property to convey its significance; includes
the concepts of location, design, setting, materials, workmanship, feeling and
association.
   LOCAL HISTORIC DISTRICT. Any area designated as such by ordinance which
includes or encompasses such historic buildings, sites, structures or objects
as the Commission may determine to be appropriate for historic preservation.
Such local district or districts need not be a single enclosed area nor do the
areas or sites have to be contiguous to constitute a district. A district may
include contributing, non-contributing or undeveloped properties.
   LOCAL HISTORIC PRESERVATION PLAN. The organization into a logical sequence
of preservation information pertaining to identification, evaluation,
registration and treatment of historic properties and setting priorities for
accomplishing preservation activities, resulting in a written document.
   NATIONAL REGISTER. The National Register of Historic Places. A list
established by the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 (as amended),
being 54 U.S.C. §§ 300101 et seq. and codified in 36 C.F.R. part 60 (as
amended) of buildings, sites, structures, objects and districts having local,
state or national historical, architectural or cultural significance and
considered worthy of preservation.
   NATIONAL REGISTER CRITERIA. The established criteria for evaluating the
eligibility of properties for inclusion in the National Register of Historic
Places. For further information on the criteria refer to the National Park
Service website, National Register of Historic Places (see http://
www.cr.nps.gov/nr).
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Construction or installation of an entire structure,
whether primary, secondary or accessory.
   NON-CONTRIBUTING. A building, site, structure or object within a district
may be NON-CONTRIBUTING because: it was not present during the period of
significance; due to alterations, disturbances, additions or other changes, it
no longer possesses historic integrity reflecting its character at that time or
is incapable of yielding important information about the period; or it does not
individually meet the National Register eligibility criteria. A NON-
CONTRIBUTING building, site, structure or object that is within a historic
district remains subject to this chapter. For inventory purposes, SECONDARY
shall be used synonymously with NON-CONTRIBUTING. This classification has been
designated through a survey and a formal hearing process.
   OBJECT. For purposes of designation, a construction primarily artistic in
nature or relatively small in scale and simply constructed, such as a statue or
milepost.
   PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANCE. The length of time when a property was associated
with important events, activities or persons, or attained the characteristics
which qualify it for National Register listing. PERIOD OF SIGNIFICANCE usually
begins with the date when significant activities or events began giving the
property its historic significance; this is often a date of construction.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, corporation, association, municipal corporation
or any other governmental or quasi-governmental agency, or group or combination
thereof acting as a unit, except that nothing in this chapter shall be
construed to allow the designation, regulation, conditioning, restriction or
acquisition of historic buildings, structures, sites or areas or other
properties or facilities owned by the state or any of its political
subdivisions, agencies or instrumentalities.
   PERSON IN CHARGE. The person or persons possessed of the freehold, or a
mortgagee or vendee in possession, assignee of rents, receiver, executor,
trustee, lessee, agent or any person directly or indirectly in control of a
historic property.
   PLANNING DIRECTOR. The Planning and Zoning Director of the city charged with
the administration of the city’s planning and zoning documents, including those
pertaining to historic preservation. This definition includes the Planning
Director’s designated representative(s), also referred to in this chapter as
planning staff.
   PRESERVATION. The act or process of applying measures necessary to sustain
the existing form, integrity and materials of a historic property. Work,
including preliminary measures to protect and stabilize the property, generally
focuses upon the ongoing maintenance and repair of historic materials and
features rather than extensive replacement and new construction. New exterior
additions are not within the scope of this treatment; however, the limited and
sensitive upgrading of mechanical, electrical and plumbing systems and other
code required work to make properties functional is appropriate within a
preservation project. Exterior additions should be sympathetic to the
significant elements of the historic property.
   PRIMARY FACADE. The elevation that most characterizes a structure’s
significance; usually the front elevation.
   PROPERTY. Land and that which is erected or affixed to the land. Real
property extends to rights issuing out of, annexed to and exercisable within or
about land.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. A portion of land either dedicated or reserved for
public use which normally includes alleys, streets, sidewalks, utilities or
other service functions. For purposes of this chapter, alleys shall not be
included as part of PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   RECONSTRUCTION. The act or process of depicting, by means of new
construction, the form, features and detailing of a non-surviving building,
site, structure or object for the purpose of replicating its appearance at a
specific period of time and in its historic location.
   REHABILITATION. The act or process of making possible a compatible use for a
property through repair, alterations and additions while preserving those
portions of features which convey its historical, cultural or architectural
values.
   RESTORATION. The act or process of accurately depicting the forms, features
and character of a property as it appeared at a particular period of time by
means of the removal of features from other periods in its history and
reconstruction of missing features from the restoration period. The limited and
sensitive upgrading of mechanical, electrical and plumbing systems and other
code required work to make properties functional is appropriate within a
RESTORATION project.
   SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR’S STANDARDS FOR REHABILITATION. Standards that
were written pursuant to federal law to ensure that work on historic buildings
is done in such a manner which preserves the historical integrity of the
building. For further information refer to the “Secretary of the Interior’s
Standards for the Treatment of Historic Properties with Guidelines for
Preserving, Rehabilitating, Restoring and Reconstructing Historic Buildings.”
   SITE. For purposes of designation, location of a significant event, a
prehistoric or historic occupation or activity, or a building or structure,
whether standing, ruined or vanished, where the location itself possesses
historic, cultural or archeological value regardless of the value of any
existing structures.
   SITE IMPROVEMENTS. A modification to the grounds of a property not including
the buildings or accessory buildings. Such improvements may include, but are
not limited to, fences, walls, greenhouses, storage sheds, outdoor light
fixtures, patios, decks, porches, hot tubs, swimming pools, fountains,
barbecues, outdoor fireplaces, playground equipment, steps or pavement.
   STRUCTURE.
      (1)   For purposes of designation. A functional construction made for
purposes other than creating shelter, such as, but not limited to, a bridge,
canal or dam.
      (2)   For all other purposes. Anything constructed or erected which
requires permanent location on the ground or is attached to something having
location on the ground. STRUCTURES may include, but are not limited to,
buildings, platforms, framework, antennas and prefabricated sheds or other
structures.
   SURVEY FORM. A form that catalogs the age, style, contributing or non-
contributing classification, address, location, photograph, date of inventory,
name of surveyor, building permit history and other relevant information as may
be required by the Planning Director or Commission for a building, site,
structure or object.
   TEMPORARY FEATURES. Items that are erected or displayed for a limited amount
of time, not to exceed 180 days at any one time unless otherwise approved by
the Planning Director, which may include, but are not limited to, sidewalk café
tables, fences, chairs, planters, umbrellas and bicycle racks.
   TEMPORARY STRUCTURES. A structure with or without a foundation that is
erected for a limited amount of time, not to exceed 180 days at any one time
unless otherwise approved by the Planning Director, which may include, but is
not limited to, playhouses and play equipment, mobile buildings and carport/
canopy structures.
(Ord. 2905, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 02-17-03 HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a Historic Preservation
Commission which shall consist of no less than five but up to ten members who
shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the Council. In
addition, there shall be one nonvoting liaison member from the Council or city
staff.
   (B)   Members of the Commission shall be appointed with due regard to the
proper representation of such fields as history, architecture, urban planning,
education, archeology and law. Appointed members of the Commission shall live
or work in the city or in the city’s impact area during the full term of
service.
   (C)   The members of the Commission are eligible for reappointment without
regard to the number of terms having been previously served. If a vacancy
occurs, the Mayor with the consent of the Council shall appoint a member to
fill the unexpired term.
   (D)   The members of the Commission shall serve without pay but shall be
reimbursed, with prior permission, by the city for necessary expenses incurred
in connection with their duties.
   (E)   A quorum shall consist of at least 50% or greater of the current
membership and shall not include the nonvoting liaison member from Council or
city staff.
   (F)   The Commission may employ such qualified staff personnel as it deems
necessary.
   (G)   Any member who is absent from four regular meetings in a calendar year
will be notified by letter that the absence limit has been reached. If the
member is subsequently absent from a fifth regular meeting in that same
calendar year, the absence record shall be forwarded to the Mayor for action.
Failure to meet attendance requirements for regular meetings shall be
sufficient grounds for removal from the Commission by action of the City
Council. Members may request a leave of absence for periods of two months to
one year, and upon favorable recommendation by the Commission and approval of
the City Council, each leave may be obtained with no adverse impact upon the
member’s absence record.
   (H)   All members of the Commission shall attend at least one meeting or
training, per year, sponsored by any preservation organization or related
organization. Attendance at Commission meetings does not count toward this
requirement. Failure to meet this requirement shall be sufficient grounds for
removal from the Commission by action of the City Council.
(Ord. 2905, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 02-17-04 PROCEDURES; RULES; MEETINGS; OFFICERS.
   (A)   Rules. The Commission may establish any rules necessary for the
orderly conduct of its business, and all meetings of the Commission shall be
open to the public.
   (B)   Record. The Commission shall keep a record of its attendance,
resolutions, proceedings and actions. The minutes of the preceding Commission
meetings shall be approved by the Commission before any further distribution of
such minutes is made. A copy of the minutes of each meeting shall be kept on
file at the Planning and Zoning Department and City Hall.
   (C)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings shall be scheduled once a month
unless there are not any certificates of appropriateness to review or other
pertinent Commission business to discuss.
   (D)   Special meetings. A special meeting may be called by the Chair of the
Commission whenever he or she deems such meeting necessary. Such special
meeting shall be held at the time and place specified in the call for such a
meeting and each member of the Commission shall be notified of the time and
place of special meetings.
   (E)   Quorum present. In case there shall be no quorum present on the day
fixed for a regular or special meeting, the Commission members present may
adjourn to a specified date and time until a quorum is obtained.
   (F)   Elect officers. At the first meeting of the calendar year, the
appointed Commissioners shall elect officers who shall be Commission members
and who shall serve for terms of one year.
   (G)   Chair. The Chair of the Commission shall preside at all meetings of
the Commission at which he or she is present. He or she shall conduct public
hearings and other public and official meetings held by the Commission. The
Chair shall exercise general guidance and supervision over business and
operation of the Commission and shall present to the Commission such matters
as, in his or her judgment, require the attention of the Commission. The Chair
shall execute all formal documents, including certificates of appropriateness,
on behalf of the Commission and shall, at all times, represent the Commission
in the absence of a duly appointed alternate. The Chair of the Commission shall
vote on all matters and shall have equal privileges as a Commission member
including the right to surrender the Chair for purposes of making motions or
introducing resolutions.
   (H)   Vice Chair. In the absence of the Chair of the Commission, the Vice
Chair of the Commission, or in his or her absence, a Commissioner elected by a
quorum of the Commission shall accede to the duties and obligations of the
office of Chair of the Commission.
   (I)   Planning and zoning staff. Planning and zoning staff shall be
secretary/clerk for the Commission and shall be responsible for swearing in
those who need to testify under oath, taking and keeping minutes and records
for all meetings and hearings, preparing and distributing agendas, keeping
records of properties within local historic districts and all similar items.
   (J)   Committees. The Chair of the Commission shall appoint such committees
as the Commission may direct. He or she may appoint such additional committees
as he or she deems necessary to accomplish the work of the Commission.
(Ord. 2905, passed 9-4-2012; Ord. 3047, passed 3-21-2016; Ord. 3532, passed 9-
5-2023; Ord. 3541, passed 10-17-2023; Ord. 3604, passed 6-18-2024; Ord. 3626,
passed 8-19-2024)
§ 02-17-05 POWERS AND DUTIES OF COMMISSION.
   The Commission shall exercise to the fullest extent the authority granted
under Idaho Code Title 67 (State Government and State Affairs), Chapter 46
(Preservation of Historic Sites) and shall be authorized to:
   (A)   Conduct surveys of local historic properties;
   (B)   Acquire fee and lesser interests in historic properties, including
adjacent or associated lands, by purchase, bequest or donation, but shall not
be authorized to acquire historic properties by condemnation;
   (C)   Preserve, restore, maintain and operate historic properties under the
ownership or control of the Commission;
   (D)   Lease, sell and otherwise transfer or dispose of historic properties
subject to rights of public access and other covenants and in a manner that
will preserve the property;
   (E)   Contract, with the approval of Council, with the state or federal
government, or any agency of either, or with any other organization;
   (F)   Cooperate with the federal, state and local governments in the pursuit
of the objectives of historic preservation;
   (G)   Participate in the conduct of land use, urban renewal and other
planning processes undertaken by the city;
   (H)   Recommend ordinances and otherwise provide information for the
purposes of historic preservation to the Council;
   (I)   Promote and conduct an educational and interpretive program on
historic properties within the jurisdiction of the city;
   (J)   Enter, solely in performance of its official duties and only at
reasonable times, upon private lands for examination or survey thereof.
However, no member, employee or agent of the Commission may enter any private
property, building or structure without the express consent of the owner or
occupant thereof; and
   (K)   Prepare, adopt, maintain and update a local historic preservation plan
for the city.
(Ord. 2905, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 02-17-06 FUNDING.
   (A)   For the purpose of providing funds for a Historic Preservation
Commission, the Council may:
      (1)   Provide funds from current revenues;
      (2)   Receive and expend monies from any other available source or
sources; or
      (3)   Use any combination of divisions (A)(1) or (A)(2) above.
   (B)   Any funds received by the Historic Preservation Commission may be
accumulated from year to year and need not be expended during any one fiscal
year, provided that the maximum accumulation of funds received from ad valorem
taxes shall not exceed twice the amount of money authorized by the Council in
the previous year pursuant to division (A) above.
(Ord. 2905, passed 9-4-2012; Ord. 2923, passed 4-15-2013)
§ 02-17-07 DESIGNATION OF LOCAL HISTORICAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Establishment of districts.
      (1)   Generally. The city may establish by ordinance one or more local
historic districts within the area of its jurisdiction. No local historic
district or districts shall be designated until a minimum of one of the
following has been established:
         (a)   Historical or cultural importance;
         (b)   Architectural importance; or
         (c)   Archeological importance, as outlined below.
      (2)   Criteria for designation. The buildings, sites, structures and
objects of a local historic district shall meet one of the following three
criteria:
         (a)   Historical or cultural importance.
            1.   Has significant character, interest or value, as part of the
development, heritage or cultural characteristics of the city, state or nation;
or is associated with the life of a person significant in the past;
            2.   Is the site of a historic event with a significant effect upon
society;
            3.   Exemplifies the cultural, political, economic, social,
educational or historic heritage of the community;
            4.   By being part of or related to a street, square, park or other
distinctive area, should be developed or preserved according to a plan based on
historic, cultural or architectural motif; or
            5.   Owing to its unique location or singular physical
characteristic, represents an established and familiar visual feature of the
neighborhood, community or city.
         (b)   Architectural importance.
            1.   Portrays the environment;
            2.   Embodies those distinguishing characteristics of an
architectural type or engineering specimen;
            3.   Is the work of a designer, architect or craftsman whose
individual work has significantly influenced the development of the city, state
or nation; or
            4.   Contains elements of design, detail, materials or
craftsmanship which represent a significant innovation.
         (c)   Archeological importance.
            1.   Has yielded or may be likely to yield information important in
prehistory or history; or
            2.   Contains or is likely to contain physical remains, such as
relics, monuments, art or symbols, of past human life and activities.
   (B)   Commission research and report on proposed district.
      (1)   The Commission, either by its own initiative or upon the request of
the Council, or upon the request of one or more owners of property in the area
of a proposed local historic district, may recommend the designation of one or
more local historic districts.
      (2)   Prior to recommending designation, the Commission shall make an
investigation of the historical, architectural, archeological and cultural
significance of the buildings, structures, features, sites or surroundings
included in any such proposed local historic district based on the relevant
criteria listed in division (A) above.
      (3)   Thereafter, the Commission shall prepare a report containing
recommendations concerning the area or areas to be included in the proposed
local historic district or districts.
   (C)   Transmittal of report to Planning and Zoning Commission. Copies of the
report shall be transmitted to the City Planning and Zoning Commission for
review and recommendation through the public hearing process as outlined in
Title 10 of this code. Not less than 60 days after the date of transmittal of
such report to the Planning and Zoning Commission, the Historic Preservation
Commission shall hold a public hearing regarding the proposed local historic
district.
   (D)   Notice requirements of the public hearing for Historic Preservation
Commission.
      (1)   Notice of the time, place and purpose of such hearing shall be
given at least 15 calendar days prior to the hearing by one publication in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city; and
      (2)   Written notice of the hearing shall be given to the owners of all
properties, as well as occupants of the properties if different from the
owners, to be included in the local historic district or districts at least 15
calendar days prior to the hearing.
   (E)   Final report to City Council. After conducting the public hearing, the
Commission may vote to proceed with the proposed local historic district, and
shall submit a final report with its recommendations, as well as the
recommendations of the Planning and Zoning Commission, and a draft ordinance to
the City Council.
   (F)   Public hearing by City Council. The City Council shall act on the
report and recommendation in accordance with the public hearing provisions of
Title 10 of this code. Upon approval by the Council of the ordinance
establishing the local historic district, the zoning maps shall be changed to
reflect the addition of the applicable local historic district overlay zone.
   (G)   Notification of district.
      (1)   Upon adoption of the ordinance, the owners of each property within
the local historic district shall be given written notification of said
designation. Occupants of each property, if different from the owners, shall
also be given written notification. Written notifications shall be the
responsibility of the Planning and Zoning Department.
      (2)   The Planning and Zoning Department shall also notify the following
city departments of such designation: Fire Department, Building Department,
Engineering Department and Mapping Department.
      (3)   One copy of the ordinance creating the local historic district
shall be filed in the office of the County Recorder by the City Clerk.
   (H)   Record of local historic districts.
      (1)   The Planning and Zoning Department shall maintain a record of local
historic districts and all properties within local historic districts.
      (2)   All properties within a local historic district may be marked with
a suitable sign or marker on or near the property indicating that the property
has been so designated as part of a local historic district.
   (I)   Investigation or report updates. The physical changes in a local
historic district that are approved by a certificate of appropriateness shall
be added to the record maintained by the Planning and Zoning Department as
identified in division (H) above. Updates to the record are not considered
amendments to the local historic district.
(Ord. 2905, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 02-17-08 DESIGNATION OF HISTORIC LANDMARKS.
   Historic landmarks shall be designated by ordinance and in accordance with
the following requirements.
   (A)   The building, site, structure or object proposed for such designation
may be so designated on the following criteria: historical, architectural,
archeological and cultural significance; suitability for preservation or
restoration; educational value; cost of acquisition, restoration, maintenance,
operation or repair; possibilities for adaptive or alternative use of the
property; appraised value; and the administrative and financial responsibility
of any person or organization willing to underwrite all or a portion of such
costs. In addition, it must meet the criteria established for inclusion in the
National Register of Historic Places.
   (B)   The Commission, either on its own initiative or upon the request of
the City Council, or upon the request of owner of the property proposed to be
designated, may recommend the designation of a historic landmark. Prior to
recommending the designation, the Commission shall conduct studies, research
and investigations based on the relevant criteria listed in division (A) above.
Thereafter, the Commission shall prepare a report containing recommendations
concerning the historic landmark proposed to be designated and a draft of the
designating ordinance to be presented to the City Council for consideration
during a public hearing. The report of the Commission shall include comments
regarding the suitability of the historic landmark for preservation or
restoration.
   (C)   For each designated historic landmark, the designating ordinance shall
require the waiting period prescribed by §
02-17-12 to be observed prior to its demolition, material alteration,
remodeling or removal. The designating ordinance shall also provide guidelines
for a suitable sign or marker on or near the historic landmark indicating that
the property has been so designated.
      (1)   For properties both designated as a historic landmark and located
within a local historic district, the portion of this chapter pertaining to the
districts takes precedence over the waiting period for demolition, material
alteration, remodeling or removal of the structure.
      (2)   For state or federal properties which are designated as historic
landmarks, the designation is an honorary effort, and the city acknowledges
that the repair, maintenance, demolition or remodel of the structure is not
within its jurisdiction.
   (D)   The City Council shall hold a public hearing on the designating
ordinance, after having given written notice to the owners and occupants of the
property and the publication of such notice in the time and manner required by
§
02-17-07.
   (E)   Following such public hearing, the Council may act on the designating
ordinance.
   (F)   Upon passage of the designating ordinance, the owners and occupants of
each designated historic landmark shall be given written notification of said
designation by the Council, and one copy of the designating ordinance shall be
filed in the office of the County Recorder by the City Clerk.
   (G)   The City Clerk shall give notice of such designation to the County Tax
Assessor.
(Ord. 2905, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 02-17-09 CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS REQUIRED.
   (A) Alterations and/or new construction in local historic districts.
      (1)   General rules.
         (a)   After the designation by ordinance of a local historic district,
no “exterior feature,” as defined within this chapter, of any building, site,
structure or object, including all appurtenant features, nor aboveground
utility structure nor any type of outdoor advertising sign shall be erected,
altered, restored, moved or demolished within such local historic district
until after an application for a certificate of appropriateness has been
submitted to the Planning and Zoning Department and approved by the Commission.
         (b)   A certificate is required whether or not a building permit is
required, and a certificate of appropriateness must be granted in all cases
before an applicant can obtain any other permit.
         (c)   As part of the application process for a certificate of
appropriateness, the planning staff shall confirm the contributing or non-
contributing classification of the property based upon the survey records.
         (d)   The Commission may delegate to the planning staff review of
certificates of appropriateness that are listed as “staff level” under the
certificate of appropriateness matrix adopted by the Commission and that are in
compliance with the “Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation
and Guidelines for Rehabilitating Historic Buildings” and the “Steunenberg
Residential Historic District Design Guidelines.”
      (2)   Exceptions. No certificate of appropriateness is required for the
following items:
         (a)   Interior arrangement of any building or structure or any
interior features or fixtures;
         (b)   Temporary structures and features that do not remain in
existence for a time period greater than a total of 45 days in any consecutive
12-month period; and
         (c)   A site or building improvement that does not require a
certificate in the certificate of appropriateness matrix as adopted by
resolution by the Commission and on file in the Planning and Zoning Department.
   (B)   Demolition or relocation in local historic districts. After the
designation by ordinance of a local historic district, no building, site,
structure or object which is a part of such district shall be demolished or
moved until after an application for a certificate of appropriateness relating
to the demolition or moving of such building, site, structure or object has
been submitted to and approved by the Commission through a public hearing. A
certificate of appropriateness will be required whether or not a building
permit is required and a certificate of appropriateness must be granted in all
cases before an applicant can obtain any other permit required for the
demolition or moving of any building, site, structure or object which is part
of a local historic district.
   (C)   Change in zoning classification and/or change in use in designated
local historic districts. Any change in zoning classification as well as any
change in use, preliminary plat, special use, temporary use and/or home
occupation within a local historic district shall first require approval and
issuance of a certificate of appropriateness before an applicant can apply for
or obtain any other permit or license that may be required.
(Ord. 2905, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 02-17-10 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS; NOTICE; ACTION; APPEAL FOR COMMISSION AND
STAFF LEVEL APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Application requirements.
      (1)   An application for a certificate of appropriateness shall be
submitted by the owner of the property, or by a representative of such person,
on a form obtained from the Planning and Zoning Department and containing such
information as required by the Commission.
      (2)   The applicant shall be solely responsible for submitting a complete
application in enough time to ensure all required notification deadlines, as
outlined in this chapter, are able to be met.
      (3)   An application seeking demolition or relocation shall provide the
following:
         (a)   A written statement as to why the building, site, structure or
object should be demolished;
         (b)   Photographs of the building, site, structure or object to be
demolished, as well as of adjacent properties; and
         (c)   If applicants wish to be considered for the finding under §
02-17-11-02(D), they shall provide the following additional information:
            1.   Two written reports, prepared, stamped and signed by currently
licensed state design professionals appropriate to the nature of the project,
at least one of which shall be disinterested, stating the structural soundness
of the building or structure proposed for demolition and suitability for reuse;
and
            2.   An analysis of the cost to rehabilitate the existing structure
plus construct the additional square footage and other goals of the
application. These costs shall be completed to include the cost of demolishing
any existing structures and the equivalent new construction and shall be
completed, signed and stamped by a currently licensed state design/contract
professional appropriate to the nature of the project.
   (B)   Public meetings, hearings, notification and action for Commission
level applications.
      (1)   Public meetings; notice. Prior to approval or denial of a
certificate of appropriateness for window, door, roofing, siding replacement
and fencing, except for those certificates of appropriateness approved by staff
level, a public meeting shall be held, notice shall be posted on the premises
not less than seven calendar days prior to the meeting.
      (2)   Hearing; notice. Prior to approval or denial of a certificate of
appropriateness for demolition, relocation, zone change, change of use,
additions, alterations or new construction a public hearing shall be held,
notice shall be posted on the premises not less than seven calendar days prior
to the meeting and notice shall be mailed to the applicant, the property owners
and residents within 300 feet of the exterior boundary of the parcel under
consideration, and to any applicable registered neighborhood associations, a
minimum of 15 days prior to said public hearing.
      (3)   Incomplete application. In the event the Commission receives an
application for review that the Commission deems incomplete or needing
additional information, the request shall be continued to the next meeting.
      (4)   Representative must be present. The property owner(s) or property
owner’s representative shall be present at the meeting for the Commission to
take action on the application.
      (5)   Agenda. The complete agenda for all meetings shall be posted on the
city’s website and in the Development Services Building.
      (6)   Action by the Commission.
         (a)   Approvals. If the Commission determines the proposed request is
appropriate, it shall approve such application with its reasons for the
decision and any applicable conditions of approval and shall issue to the
applicant a certificate of appropriateness.
         (b)   Denials. If the Commission determines that a certificate of
appropriateness should not be issued, it shall place upon its records the
reason for such determination and shall notify the applicant in writing of its
reasons and recommendations, if any, as to what actions could be taken in order
to obtain a certificate.
   (C)   Action and notification for staff level certificates.
      (1)   Within a minimum of ten business days after receipt of an
application, planning staff shall investigate the request and shall either
approve, modify or deny such application.
      (2)   Within five business days of the decision, planning staff shall
notify, in writing, the applicant. Notification shall be deemed complete on the
date notice is provided to the applicant.
   (D)   Appeals.
      (1)   Appeal of Commission level decisions. Any applicant or property
owner or resident within 300 feet of the subject property aggrieved by a
determination of the Commission may appeal to the Council within 15 calendar
days from the date the certificate of appropriateness is approved or denied.
The decision is deemed to have been made on the date the Commission signs the
order of decision. An appeal from the Council may be taken to a court of
competent jurisdiction.
      (2)   Appeal of staff level decisions. A decision of planning staff may
be appealed to the Commission within 15 calendar days from the date the
certificate of appropriateness is approved or denied. The applicant may request
a waiver of the 15-day appeal period for staff level approvals if the request
is made in writing and accompanied by the signatures of all adjacent property
owners and residents indicating that they do not object to the waiver request.
Planning staff shall review all pertinent information and issue a decision on
the request.
   (E)   Term of approval. The term of approval for a certificate of
appropriateness shall be 12 months from the date of signature on the
certificate or may be extended through the issuance of a valid building permit.
The certificate of appropriateness is issued to the property owner and is valid
for both the property and whoever owns the property, within the applicable one-
year time frame. If the property is sold within the one-year time frame, the
certificate of appropriateness shall be transferred from the previous owner to
the new owner. Certificates of appropriateness shall not be transferred from
one property site to another property site but may be transferred between
property owners on and for the same property site.
(Ord. 2905, passed 9-4-2012; Ord. 3126, passed 1-16-2018)
§ 02-17-11 FINDINGS FOR GRANTING A CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   The Commission shall review application(s) with the findings outlined
below as pertaining to the request for a certificate of appropriateness. The
Commission may attach conditions of approval to the application to ensure
compliance with the findings. Modifications to the application may be submitted
and will be considered at a staff level. In reviewing the modification,
planning staff will utilize the original findings under which the application
was reviewed to ensure the project still complies with the requirements for a
certificate of appropriateness.
      (1)   Section
02-17-11-01 (Alterations; Findings);
      (2)   Section
02-17-11-02 (Demolition or Relocation; Findings);
      (3)   Section
02-17-11-03 (Change in Zoning Classification or Change in Use; Findings); and
      (4)   Section
02-17-11-04 (New Construction; Findings).
   (B)   The Commission shall find that the design of the project is consistent
with the following plans and guidelines that apply to the property:
      (1)   “U.S. Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation and
Guidelines for Rehabilitating Historic Buildings”;
      (2)   
Title 10 of this code, as amended and adopted by City Council;
      (3)   “Steunenberg Residential Historic District Design Guidelines,” as
amended and adopted (copies available in the City Planning and Zoning
Department); and
      (4)   The city comprehensive plan, as amended and adopted by City
Council.
(Ord. 2905, passed 9-4-2012; Ord. 3126, passed 1-16-2018)
§ 02-17-11-01 ALTERATIONS; FINDINGS.
   The Commission’s decision in regard to certificates of appropriateness for
alterations shall be based on the following findings as applicable to that
property or request and as they relate to historic preservation.
   (A)   The request is consistent with the “Steunenberg Residential Historic
District Design Guidelines.”
   (B)   The request is consistent with the “Secretary of the Interior’s
Standards for Rehabilitation and Guidelines for Rehabilitating Historic
Buildings.”
   (C)   The request supports the goals, policies and recommendations of the
city’s comprehensive plan and the plans referenced therein.
   (D)   Based on the adopted design guidelines the request will not be
incongruous with the historical, architectural, archeological, educational or
cultural aspects of the local district.
   (E)   The request complies with the dimensional standards and other
applicable requirements of
Title 10 of this code, including, but not limited to, setbacks, height
restrictions and parking requirements, unless the Commission finds that
modifying those standards is necessary to protect the overall characteristics
of the local district and to comply with the adopted design guidelines.
(Ord. 2905, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 02-17-11-02 DEMOLITION OR RELOCATION; FINDINGS.
   In order for the Commission to approve a demolition or relocation request,
at least three out of the following five findings must be met:
   (A)   The building, site, structure or object is not classified as
contributing within the local district as stated on the survey form on file in
the Planning and Zoning Department;
   (B)   The building, site, structure or object cannot reasonably meet
national, state or local criteria for designation as a historic property;
   (C)   The demolition of the building, site, structure or object would not
have an adverse impact on the character of the district and/or the adjacent
properties and/or would not put the district at risk of losing historical
status;
   (D)   The owner has reasonably demonstrated that rehabilitation of the
building, site, structure or object would not be economically practical,
realistic or viable based on review of the information required in §
02-17-10(A)(3)(c); and
   (E)   Plans have been submitted to redevelop the property if the demolition
proceeds and such plans will have a positive effect on the district and/or
adjacent properties. The size, scale, use, materials and/or overall design of
the project may be considered as qualities for producing a positive effect.
(Ord. 2905, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 02-17-11-03 CHANGE IN ZONING CLASSIFICATION OR CHANGE IN USE; FINDINGS.
   The Commission’s decision in regard to certificates of appropriateness for a
change in zoning classification, change in use, home occupation permit, special
use permit and/or temporary use permit shall be based on the following
findings:
   (A)   The request supports the city’s comprehensive plan goals, policies and
recommendations contained within § 11 (Special Sites/Historic Areas) of said
plan;
   (B)   The request will be congruous with the historical, architectural,
archeological, educational or cultural significance of the local district; and
   (C)   There will be no significant effect on the exterior of the site.
(Ord. 2905, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 02-17-11-04 NEW CONSTRUCTION; FINDINGS.
   The following objectives and findings, in addition to those cited under §
02-17-11-01, shall be considered where applicable to the proposal.
   (A)   Minimizes traffic impact. The site design minimizes impact of traffic
on adjacent streets and that the pedestrian and bicyclist have been provided
for by requiring sidewalks, landscaping and safe parking lot design as
appropriate.
   (B)   Landscaping.
      (1)   The proposed landscaping enhances the historic district and
neighborhood with attributes that include, but are not limited to, protection
of desirable existing trees, provision of street trees and adequate screening
methods where needed to buffer adjacent uses and unsightly areas or features.
      (2)   Considerations relative to this division (B):
         (a)   The location, height and materials of walls, fences, hedges and
screening plantings to ensure harmony with adjacent developments;
         (b)   The planting of street trees and the unnecessary destruction of
existing trees and landscape features; and
         (c)   The provision of plantings or other screening methods reasonably
required to conceal outdoor storage areas, trash receptacles, exposed machinery
installation, utility buildings and installations and similar accessory areas
or other unsightly developments.
   (C)   On-site grading and drainage. On-site grading and drainage have been
designed so as to minimize off-site impact and provide for erosion control as
required by the city.
   (D)   Review of building mass. The mass of the building shall be reviewed
for its relationship to other buildings within the local historic district.
   (E)   Proportion of building facades. The height to width relationship shall
be compatible and consistent with the predominant architectural character of
the local historic district.
   (F)   Shadow relief/design interest. The exterior of the building shall
provide shadow relief and design interest compatible with the architectural
character of the local historic district.
   (G)   Appropriateness of materials. The appropriateness of materials shall
be reviewed as they relate to building mass, shadow relief and compatibility
with other buildings within the local historic district.
   (H)   Consistency of design. The Commission shall find that the design of
the project is consistent with the plans and guidelines listed in §
02-17-11.
(Ord. 2905, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 02-17-12 PROCEDURE FOR DEMOLITION OR CHANGE IN USE OF HISTORIC LANDMARK.
   (A)   A historic landmark so designated by ordinance, which is not part of a
local historic district, may be demolished, materially altered, remodeled,
relocated or put to a different use only after 180 days’ written notice of the
owner’s proposed action has been given to the Commission in accordance with the
following procedures.
      (1)   During this period, the Commission may negotiate with the owner and
with any other parties in an effort to find a means of preserving the property.
      (2)   During this period, or at any time prior thereto following notice
of designation to the owner, and where such action is reasonably necessary or
appropriate for the continued preservation of the property, the Commission may
enter into negotiations with the owner for the acquisition by gift, purchase or
exchange of the property or any interest therein.
   (B)   The Commission may reduce the waiting period required by this section
in any case where the owner would suffer extreme hardship, unless a reduction
in the required period was allowed. The Commission shall have the discretionary
authority to waive all or any portion of the required waiting period, provided
that the alteration, remodeling, relocation or change of use is undertaken
subject to conditions agreed to by the Commission ensuring the continued
maintenance of the historical, architectural, archeological or cultural
integrity and character of the property.
   (C)   At the end of the required waiting period, as reduced or waived if
such is the case, the designation of such historic landmark shall be rescinded
as necessary and a draft of a proposed ordinance removing such designation
shall be prepared and submitted to the Council for approval.
(Ord. 2905, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 02-17-13 ORDINARY REPAIRS; PUBLIC SAFETY.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the ordinary
maintenance or repair of any exterior feature in a local historic district, or
of any historic landmark, which does not involve a change in design, material
or outer appearance thereof, nor to prevent the construction, reconstruction,
alteration, restoration or demolition of any such feature when the Building
Official shall certify such is required for the public safety because of an
unsafe or dangerous condition.
   (B)   (1)   Neither the owner nor the person in charge of a designated
historic landmark or property within a local historic district shall permit it
to fall into a state of disrepair which may result in the deterioration of any
exterior appurtenance or architectural feature so as to produce or tend to
produce, in the judgment of the Commission, a detrimental effect upon its
historic character, including, but not limited to, the deterioration of
exterior walls or other vertical supports; the deterioration of the foundation;
the deterioration of exterior chimneys; the deterioration of roofs or other
horizontal members; the deterioration or removal of exterior finishes or
fenestration; the ineffective waterproofing of exterior walls, roofs and
foundations including broken windows or doors; and/or the deterioration of any
feature so as to create or permit the creation of any hazardous or unsafe
condition or conditions.
      (2)   If the Commission makes a preliminary determination that a property
is being demolished by neglect as described in this division (B), it shall
direct planning and zoning code enforcement to notify the owner(s) of the
property of this preliminary determination, stating the reasons therefor and
the actions necessary, and shall give the owner of record 28 days from the date
of mailing of such notice to submit a plan and a time frame to correct the
specific defects as determined by the Commission.
(Ord. 2905, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 02-17-14 ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   All lands, buildings, structures, sites or areas acquired by funds
appropriated by the city shall be acquired in the name of the city unless
otherwise provided by the governing board. So long as owned by the city,
historic properties may be maintained by or under the supervision and control
of the city.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to allow the designation,
regulation, conditioning, restriction or acquisition of historic buildings,
structures, sites or areas, or other properties or facilities owned by the
state or any of its political subdivisions, agencies or instrumentalities.
(Ord. 2905, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 02-17-15 ACQUISITION OF HISTORIC EASEMENTS.
   (A)   The city may acquire, by purchase or donation, historic easements in
any area within the jurisdiction of the city wherever and to the extent the
Council determines that the acquisition will be in the public interest.
   (B)   The Council shall seek a recommendation from the Commission regarding
the historic easement and proposed resolution.
(Ord. 2905, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 02-17-16 EXEMPTION FROM FIRE OR BUILDING CODES.
   The Council, in order to promote the preservation and restoration of any
historic landmark/property, or property within a local historic district may,
upon recommendation of the Commission, exempt a historic landmark or property
within a local historic district from the application of the city fire or
building codes upon compliance with the criteria for exemption set forth in
said codes, and provided the city has adopted such codes, and upon a finding
that non-exemption would prevent or seriously hinder the preservation or
restoration of said historic landmark or property in a local historic district.
(Ord. 2905, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 02-17-17 PENALTIES; REMEDIES.
   Any person or corporation, whether owner, lessee, principal agent, employee
or otherwise, violating any portion of this chapter or permitting any such
violation or failing to comply with any of the requirements contained within
this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not
exceeding $300. Each day that a violation continues to exist may constitute a
separate offense. The availability of criminal prosecution of violators of this
chapter shall in no way limit the other remedies that may be available to the
city to enforce the provisions of this chapter, whether in law or in equity,
including injunctive relief.
(Ord. 2905, passed 9-4-2012)
CHAPTER 19: CITY TRAFFIC COMMISSION
Section
   
02-19-01   Commission created
   
02-19-03   Membership; terms of office
   
02-19-05   Organization
   
02-19-07   Duties
§ 02-19-01 COMMISSION CREATED.
   There is hereby created and established a Commission to be known as the City
Traffic Commission.
(Ord. 2861, passed 2-22-2011)
§ 02-19-03 MEMBERSHIP; TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Membership. The City Traffic Commission shall consist of the Public
Works Director, the City Engineer, the Chief of Police, the Fire Chief, the
Planning and Zoning Director, the Street Superintendent, or their designees,
and one at large member.
   (B)   Terms of office. The at large member shall be appointed for a term of
three years commencing January 1 and ending on December 31 by the Mayor and
City Council. Any vacancy shall be filled by appointment in the same manner and
shall serve only for the remainder of the term which is vacant.
(Ord. 2861, passed 2-22-2011)
§ 02-19-05 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Commission shall meet quarterly (four times per year). Additional
meetings may be called for by the Public Works Director, as necessary.
   (B)   The Public Works Director shall serve as Chair of the Commission, and
the Chief of Police shall serve as the Vice Chair of the Commission. The Chair
shall preside at meetings of the Commission. The Vice Chair shall, in the
absence of the Chair, perform the duties of the Chair.
   (C)   All meetings of the Commission shall be open to the public and follow
the requirements of the state’s open meeting laws (see Idaho Code Title 67,
Chapter 23). The Commission shall keep minutes and other appropriate written
records. A simple majority of Commission members present at any given meeting
constitutes a quorum.
(Ord. 2861, passed 2-22-2011; Ord. 3405, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 02-19-07 DUTIES.
   The Commission is formed for the purpose of making recommendations to the
Mayor and City Council in all matters pertaining to traffic safety.
(Ord. 2861, passed 2-22-2011)
CHAPTER 21: TRUSTEES OF THE CITY EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN TRUST AGREEMENT
Section
   
02-21-01   Appointment; provisions of trust agreement on file
§ 02-21-01 APPOINTMENT; PROVISIONS OF TRUST AGREEMENT ON FILE.
   This section codifies, ratifies and recognizes the appointment of Trustees
pursuant to the City Employee Benefit Plan Trust Agreement (referred to
hereinafter in this section as “trust agreement”), executed on or about
September 2, 2008. The purpose of said document, in part, and by its own stated
terms, is “to provide for the payment of eligible expenses incurred by plan
participants for certain services.” The trust agreement appoints as the initial
Trustees: the Human Resources Director for the city; and the Finance Director/
Treasurer for the city. It further provides that the Trustees shall be allowed
to appoint ex officio members or administrative staff as needed, upon
notification to City Council. The trust agreement further contains provisions
relating to the term of each Trustee, the processes for resignation or removal
and for the appointment of successor Trustees, notice for and meetings of
Trustees, voting, powers, recordkeeping, liability and providing for the
promulgation of rules and regulations pertaining to the sound and efficient
administration of the trust agreement. A copy of the trust agreement, as it may
be amended from time to time, and information relating to the identity of
currently serving Trustees shall be available to the public upon request made
to the City Clerk.
(Ord. 2940, passed 7-1-2013)
CHAPTER 25: AUDIT COMMITTEE
Section
   
02-25-01   Creation; composition
   
02-25-03   Meetings
   
02-25-05   Authority and responsibility
   
02-25-07   Audit Committee bylaws
§ 02-25-01 CREATION; COMPOSITION.
   (A)   Creation. The Council hereby constitutes and establishes an Audit
Committee.
   (B)   Composition. The Committee shall be comprised of five members
appointed by the Council, two of whom are members of the Council Finance
Committee, and three (the independent members) who are independent of
management and the independent auditor. The independent members’ terms shall be
three years and staggered so that the Committee annually includes a new
independent member and independent members with one and two years’ service. One
independent member shall be appointed Chairperson by the Council.
(Ord. 1898, passed 5-6-1991)
§ 02-25-03 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Meeting times. The Audit Committee is to meet at least two times per
year unless additional meeting(s) are necessary, as determine by the Finance
Director.
   (B)   Attendance. Members of the Audit Committee are to be present at all
meetings. As necessary or desirable, the Chairperson may request that members
of management, the Director of Internal Audit and representatives of the
independent auditor be present at a meeting of the Committee.
   (C)   Minutes. Minutes of each meeting are to be prepared and approved by
the Committee members and provided to the Council. Approved minutes are to be
available for public inspection.
(Ord. 1898, passed 5-6-1991; Ord. 3405, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 02-25-05 AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITY.
   The Audit Committee is to serve as a focal point for communication between
the Council, the independent auditor, internal auditor and management, as their
duties relate to financial accounting, reporting and internal controls and
compliance. The Audit Committee is to assist the Council in fulfilling its
responsibilities as to accounting policies and reporting practices of the city
and sufficiency of auditing relative thereto. It is to be the Council’s
principal agent in assuring the independence of the city’s independent
auditors, the integrity of management and the adequacy of disclosures to the
public. However, the opportunity for the independent auditors to meet with the
entire Council as needed is not to be restricted. The Committee shall oversee
and advise the Council and management on the selection of independent auditors.
(Ord. 1898, passed 5-6-1991)
§ 02-25-07 AUDIT COMMITTEE BYLAWS.
   The Committee’s operational guidelines are set down in the Audit Committee
bylaws and may be amended, after consultation with the Council, by a majority
vote of the independent members. The authority and responsibility of the Audit
Committee and the appointment and terms of members are designated in the bylaws
and are incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 1898, passed 5-6-1991)
CHAPTER 27: CITY EXECUTIVE AIRPORT ADVISORY BOARD
Section
   
02-27-01   Creation and composition
   
02-27-03   Membership; appointment; terms; and vacancies
   
02-27-05   Duties and responsibilities
   
02-27-07   Meetings
   
02-27-09   Officers
   
02-27-11   Records
§ 02-27-01 CREATION AND COMPOSITION.
   (A)   An Airport Advisory Board is hereby created, consisting of not less
than three nor more than seven voting members, all of whom shall be appointed
by the Mayor and approved by a majority vote of the City Council. The members
of the Board shall serve without compensation. The term of office for each
member shall be for a period of three years. The Board shall elect a
Chairperson and Vice Chairperson. The Chairperson shall preside and direct all
Board meetings. In the absence of the Chairperson, the Vice Chairperson shall
preside and direct the meeting.
   (B)   The City Director of Aviation, or his or her designee, shall serve in
a non-voting capacity as a facilitator at Board meetings. The facilitator is
responsible for assisting the Chairperson in the process of the meeting(s).
(Ord. 3540, passed 10-3-2023; Ord. 3540-A, passed 11-21-2023)
§ 02-27-03 MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT; TERMS; AND VACANCIES.
   (A)   Membership. The membership of the Advisory Board shall be composed of:
      (1)   At least one, but not more than three, members that are general
aviation users that do not affiliate with a commercial entity at the Caldwell
Executive Airport. A minimum of one of these members shall be a resident of the
city or live within the city impact area;
      (2)   At least one, but not more than three, members that are owner/
operators of a commercial entity at the Caldwell Executive Airport. A minimum
of one of these members shall be a resident of the city or live within the city
impact area;
      (3)   One member shall also be a member of the City Council, assigned to
the Board;
      (4)   The Board is encouraged to involve young aviators and may have one
additional non-voting member who is a city resident under the age of 18; and
      (5)   Staggered terms should be implemented to ensure that no more than
three Board member terms expire in any given year. No member shall serve more
than three full consecutive terms.
   (B)   Attendance. Board members are expected to attend as many meetings as
possible. Missing multiple meetings throughout the calendar year or missing two
or more consecutive meetings without prior consent from the Chairperson shall
be grounds for being removed from the Board by the City Council.
   (C)   Removal. Removal of any Board member(s) shall take place as stated in
Title 2, Chapter 6.
   (D)   Youth member. The youth member shall be appointed to a term of up to
one year and may be reappointed for up to two successive terms not to exceed a
sitting time of three years.
(Ord. 3540, passed 10-3-2023; Ord. 3540-A, passed 11-21-2023)
§ 02-27-05 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Board to provide recommendations to the city
based on the airport’s needs based on an analysis of how they can assist the
city in implementing FAA-approved master plan and grant assurance projects to
assist in the orderly and efficient administration and operation of the
Caldwell Executive Airport. This may include:
   (A)   To study the economic and physical conditions and problems in
connection with the maintenance, operation, regulation, control and use of
Caldwell Executive Airport;
   (B)   To propose recommendations for the operation, control and use of
Caldwell Executive Airport, and the maintenance and operation of hangars,
repair shops, depots, taxi strips and all other facilities and utilities
required, necessary or convenient for the proper orderly and efficient
administration, operation, superintendence and control of the Caldwell
Executive Airport;
   (C)   To propose recommendations and suggestions for the purpose of planning
for further growth, development and regulation of the Caldwell Executive
Airport in order to promote the public interest, convenience and welfare in the
administration and operation of the Caldwell Executive Airport, as well as to
promote business activities to serve as a catalyst for economic development
throughout the city and region;
   (D)   All proposals for changes to current airport rules and regulations and
minimum standards proposed by the Board will be reviewed by the Board
facilitator, Chairperson and Vice Chairperson to ensure FAA compliance.
Reviewed proposals shall be submitted to City Council for approval and
ratification and, after such approval and ratification, shall have the force
and effect of ordinance;
   (E)   To advise the City Aviation Administration regarding rules and
regulations for aircraft traffic regulation, airport facilities and runway
improvements; and
   (F)   To formulate, propose and recommend such rules and regulations as are
necessary or desirable to carry out the intent and purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 3540, passed 10-3-2023; Ord. 3540-A, passed 11-21-2023)
§ 02-27-07 MEETINGS.
   The Board shall meet on a regular basis, no less than once per quarter.
Additional meetings may be called by the Chairperson, city staff or at the
request of the Mayor upon a minimum of seven calendar days’ written notice to
all members of the Board. The facilitator, in conjunction with the Chairperson,
shall prepare the agenda for each meeting. Complete minutes shall be kept by
the Secretary of the Board. Unless otherwise noticed, all Board meetings shall
take place at Hubler Terminal at the Caldwell Executive Airport.
(Ord. 3540, passed 10-3-2023; Ord. 3540-A, passed 11-21-2023)
§ 02-27-09 OFFICERS.
   (A)   Chairperson. The Chairperson is responsible for the meeting’s outcomes
and work product.
   (B)   Vice Chairperson. The Vice Chairperson stands in for the Chair in his
or her absence.
   (C)   Secretary. The Director of Aviation, or his or her designee, shall act
as Secretary for all meetings. He or she shall be responsible for keeping
minutes of each meeting and shall provide said minutes to the facilitator after
each meeting for them to be distributed to the Board.
   (D)   Election. The Board shall elect a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson
from current voting Board members, excluding the City Council member.
(Ord. 3540, passed 10-3-2023; Ord. 3540-A, passed 11-21-2023)
§ 02-27-11 RECORDS.
   The Recorder (Board facilitator) shall take written or media record of
meeting proceedings and produce official minutes of said record within five
business days from meeting completion showing the discussion topics and outcome
of each meeting and other official actions.
(Ord. 3540, passed 10-3-2023)
CHAPTER 29: SENIOR CITIZEN’S CENTER COMMISSION
[Reserved]
(Repealed by Ord. 3459, passed 10-20-2022)
CHAPTER 31: FRIENDS OF THE CALDWELL DEPOT
[Reserved]
(Repealed by Ord. 3635, passed 12-2-2024)
CHAPTER 32: PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION
Section
   
02-32-01   Commission created
   
02-32-02   Membership
   
02-32-03   Terms of office
   
02-32-04   Organization
   
02-32-05   Powers; duties
§ 02-32-01 COMMISSION CREATED.
   There is hereby created and established a Commission to be known as the City
Parks and Recreation Commission.
(Ord. 3508, passed 6-6-2023)
§ 02-32-02 MEMBERSHIP.
   The City Parks and Recreation Commission shall consist of not less than
three nor more than seven voting members, including one member of the City
Council. An appointed member of the Commission must reside in the city and must
remain a resident of the city during service on the Commission. All members
shall be appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by majority vote of the City
Council. Appointment of one youth advisory member is welcome and encouraged,
with the term of office expiring on August 31 of each year.
(Ord. 3508, passed 6-6-2023)
§ 02-32-03 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The term of office for members shall not be more or less than three years,
provided however, that at the expiration of said term of office, the member
shall be eligible for two additional consecutive reappointments, each for one
full term in addition to the original term already served. No person shall
serve more than two full consecutive terms without specific concurrence by two-
thirds of the Council adopted by motion and recorded in the minutes. In no case
shall any person serve more than three full consecutive terms. Vacancies
occurring otherwise than through the expiration of terms shall be filled in the
same manner as the original appointment. Members may be removed pursuant to
Title 2, Chapter 6.
(Ord. 3508, passed 6-6-2023)
§ 02-32-04 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Commission shall meet monthly, with an exception being made should
a meeting for that month be unnecessary. Additional meetings may be called for
by the Parks and Recreation Director, as necessary. The Commission shall elect
a Chairperson and create and fill any other office it may deem necessary. The
Chairperson shall preside at meetings of the Commission. The Vice Chairperson
shall, in the absence of the Chairperson, perform the duties of the
Chairperson. All meetings of the Commission shall be open to the public and
follow the requirements of the state’s open meeting laws. Executive sessions
may be closed by the presiding officer pursuant to Idaho Code § 74-206.
   (B)   A member of the city’s parks and recreation staff shall keep minutes
and other appropriate written records on behalf of the Commission. A simple
majority of Commission members present at any given meeting constitutes a
quorum.
(Ord. 3508, passed 6-6-2023)
§ 02-32-05 POWERS; DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Commission to recommend and make suggestions to
the Council regarding:
   (A)   The formation of new parks and acquisition of land;
   (B)   The development of new pathways;
   (C)   The renovation and expansion of current city parks; and
   (D)   The implementation or updating of park policies and recreation
programming.
(Ord. 3508, passed 6-6-2023)
CHAPTER 33: INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Section
   
02-33-01   Purpose
   
02-33-03   Authority
§ 02-33-01 PURPOSE.
   The industrial development corporation was created by the city pursuant to
Idaho Code Title 50, Chapter 27 (the “Act”), for the purposes set forth in the
Act, to promote employment, encourage the development of new jobs, maintain and
supplement the capital investments in industry that currently exist in the
city, encourage future employment by ensuring future capital investment,
attract environmentally sound industry, protect and enhance the quality of
natural resources and the environment and to promote the products and
conservation of energy.
(Ord. 2899, passed 2-21-2012)
§ 02-33-03 AUTHORITY.
   The powers and authority of the industrial development corporation are
provided in the state code, including, but not limited to, those powers set
forth in Idaho Code § 50-2708 and the remainder of the Act, as amended, to the
extent said powers are not limited by Ord. 1633 of the city or by the
industrial development corporation’s charter, bylaws and/or rules and
regulations.
(Ord. 2899, passed 2-21-2012)
CHAPTER 35: YOUTH MASTER PLAN COMMITTEE
[Reserved]
(Repealed by Ord. 3646, passed 12-16-2024)
CHAPTER 37: DESIGN REVIEW COMMISSION
Section
   
02-37-01   Commission created
   
02-37-02   Appointment; term
   
02-37-03   Organization
   
02-37-04   Meetings
   
02-37-05   Powers, duties and responsibilities
§ 02-37-01 COMMISSION CREATED.
   There shall be a Design Review Commission for the city, which shall be known
and designated as the “Design Review Commission” (DRC).
(Ord. 3083, passed 4-17-2017)
§ 02-37-02 APPOINTMENT; TERM.
   (A)   The DRC shall consist of at least three and no more than seven
Commissioners, all of whom shall be appointed by the Mayor with the consent of
the City Council. Appointed members of the Commissions shall live or work in
the city or in the city’s impact area during the full term of service.
Commissioners shall have a background and interest in community design such as
architects, planners, engineers, builders, developers, historians, business
persons and property owners.
   (B)   When a vacancy occurs for any reason other than an expired term a new
Commissioner shall be appointed to complete the remainder of that term.
Commissioners shall be appointed to two- and three-year terms that are equally
staggered. Subsequent terms shall be three years in length for all
Commissioners.
(Ord. 3083, passed 4-17-2017; Ord. 3627, passed 8-19-2024)
§ 02-37-03 ORGANIZATION.
   The DRC shall elect its own Chair and Vice Chair. Election of officers shall
take place annually during the first meeting of the calendar year. During the
absence of the Chair, the Vice Chair shall assume the duties of the Chair. The
Planning and Zoning Director, or a designated representative, shall serve as
secretary and shall store recordings and produce accurate minutes of all
Commission meetings.
(Ord. 3083, passed 4-17-2017)
§ 02-37-04 MEETINGS.
   The DRC shall hold meetings on an as needed basis. The DRC shall decide on
the date and time of the meeting. Regular meetings shall at all times be open
to the public.
(Ord. 3083, passed 4-17-2017; Ord. 3542, passed 10-17-2023)
§ 02-37-05 POWERS, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The DRC shall review projects requested by the applicant for
compliance with design review standards within §§ 10-12-05 (City Center Design
Requirements) and 10-12-06 (City Center Indian Creek Corridor Design
Requirements).
   (B)   The DRC’s jurisdiction is limited to new construction, building
additions or exterior renovations on properties in the City Center Zoning
District as determined on the official zoning map for the city.
   (C)   The DRC shall review projects and either approve, approve with
conditions or deny such application. The Planning and Zoning Director, or a
designated representative, shall then notify the applicant in writing of the
decision.
   (D)   Staff decisions may be appealed to the DRC, and, conversely, DRC
decisions may be appealed to the City Council for review and decision. Appeals
shall be filed in accordance will all city ordinances.
   (E)   The powers, duties and responsibilities of the DRC shall comply with
the State Local Land Use Planning Act of 1975, being Idaho Code Title 67,
Chapter 65.
(Ord. 3083, passed 4-17-2017)
CHAPTER 38: DOWNTOWN PARKING ADVISORY BOARD
Section
   
02-38-01   Commission created
   
02-38-02   Duties and responsibilities of the Board
   
02-38-03   Meetings
§ 02-38-01 COMMISSION CREATED.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created and established a Downtown Parking
Advisory Board which shall consist of not less than three and no more than
seven voting Board members.
   (B)   Expiration. The Advisory Board shall be active and perform the duties
as specified in this chapter for a period of two years from the effective date
of this chapter. The Board will sunset on February 18, 2027, unless
reestablished or extended by formal action of the City Council.
   (C)   Voting members. All voting members shall be appointed by the Mayor and
confirmed by a majority vote of the City Council. Appointed members of the
Board shall meet at least one of the following criteria:
      (1)   A citizen of the city with his or her main residence located within
city limits;
      (2)   Be the owner of real property located within the Downtown Business
District; or
      (3)   Be the owner of an active business within the Downtown Business
District. An owner of property shall mean the title holder, purchaser under a
contract for deed, lessee.
   (D)   Non-voting members. In addition, the Mayor shall assign a City Council
member to sit on the Board as a non-voting Council liaison. The City Community
Development Director, or his or her designee, shall serve in a non-voting
capacity as a facilitator at Board meetings. The facilitator is responsible for
assisting the Chairperson in the process of the meeting(s).
   (E)   Members; initial term. All Board members shall be appointed for an
initial two-year term. After two years, if the City Council votes for the
Advisory Board to continue and remain active in its duties, existing Board
member terms may be extended, or new Board members may be appointed.
   (F)   Compensation. The members of the Board shall serve without
compensation.
   (G)   Vacancies. Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the expiration
of terms shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment.
(Ord. 3657, passed 2-18-2025)
§ 02-38-02 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD.
   The Downtown Parking Advisory Board will advise and make policy
recommendations to city staff and City Council on all aspects of public parking
within the city’s downtown districts. The purpose of the Board is to provide
citizen and property owner input into the policy decisions for the city related
to all aspects of public parking, including, but not limited to, on-street
parking, parking lots and parking fees.
(Ord. 3657, passed 2-18-2025)
§ 02-38-03 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings shall be scheduled no less than
once a quarter. Regular meetings shall at all times be open to the public.
   (B)   Special meetings. Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson,
city staff or at the request of the Mayor upon a minimum of five calendar days’
written notice to all members of the Board.
   (C)   Record. The facilitator, in conjunction with the Chairperson, shall
keep a record of its attendance, proceedings and actions, and prepare the
agenda for each meeting. Complete minutes shall be kept by the facilitator of
the Board, or his or her designee.
   (D)   Quorum present. In case there shall be no quorum present on the day
fixed for a regular or special meeting, the Commission members present may
adjourn to a specified date and time until a quorum is obtained.
   (E)   Attendance. Board members are expected to attend as many meetings as
possible. Missing multiple meetings throughout the calendar year or missing two
or more consecutive meetings without prior consent from the Chairperson shall
be grounds for being removed from the Board by the City Council.
   (F)   Removal. Removal of any Board member(s) shall take place as stated in
Title 2, Chapter 6.
   (G)   Election of officers. The Board shall elect its own Chair and Vice
Chair. Election of officers shall take place annually during the first meeting
of the calendar year. During the absence of the Chair, the Vice Chair shall
assume the duties of the Chair.
   (H)   Chairperson. The Chairperson shall preside over and direct all
meetings of the Board. The Chairperson shall be responsible for ensuring that
all meetings are conducted in an orderly and effective manner.
   (I)   Vice Chairperson. In the absence of the Chairperson, the Vice
Chairperson shall assume the duties of the Chairperson.
(Ord. 3657, passed 2-18-2025)
TITLE 3: OFFICERS; EMPLOYEES; DEPARTMENT HEADS
   Chapter
      
1.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
3.   APPOINTED OFFICERS
      
5.   MAYOR
      
7.   CITY CLERK
      
9.   MAYOR’S ASSISTANT
      
11.   HUMAN RESOURCES DIRECTOR
      
12.   DIRECTOR OF AVIATION
      
13.   CITY ATTORNEY
      
15.   CITY TREASURER
      
16.   CITY FINANCE DIRECTOR
      
17.   CHIEF OF POLICE
      
19.   FIRE CHIEF
      
21.   RESERVED
      
22.   PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR
      
23.   PLANNING AND ZONING DIRECTOR
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
03-01-01   Officers to take oath of office
   
03-01-03   Bonds of certain city officers
   
03-01-05   Mayor and Council salaries
§ 03-01-01 OFFICERS TO TAKE OATH OF OFFICE.
   The various officers of the city shall take and subscribe before some
officer authorized to administer oaths such oath as is required by law of
municipal officers (see Idaho Code § 59-401), which oath shall be filed with
the Clerk. No officer shall enter upon the performance of the duties of his or
her office until he or she shall have subscribed and filed such oath as
required herein.
(Ord. 913, passed 7-6-1962)
§ 03-01-03 BONDS OF CERTAIN CITY OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Clerk, Treasurer, Finance Director and Chief of Police, before
entering upon the duties of their offices, shall file with the Clerk good and
sufficient bonds with responsible sureties, in amounts as may be determined and
approved by the Council, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the
duties of their respective offices.
   (B)   All other employees of the city whose duties involve the handling of
monies shall be covered by blanket bond in amounts as may be determined and
approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 913, passed 7-6-1962; Ord. 3447, passed 8-18-2022)
§ 03-01-05 MAYOR AND COUNCIL SALARIES.
   (A)   Elected officials.
      (1)   Mayor. The annual salary of the Mayor shall be as follows:
         (a)   Commencing January 1, 2024, the Mayor shall receive a biweekly
salary in the sum of $3,752.
         (b)   Commencing January 1, 2026, the Mayor shall receive a biweekly
salary in the sum of $3,940.
      (2)   Council. The annual salary of each member of the City Council shall
be as follows:
         (a)   Commencing January 1, 2024, each member of the City Council
shall receive a biweekly salary in the sum of $451.
         (b)   Commencing January 1, 2026, each member of the City Council
shall receive a biweekly salary in the sum of $474.
   (B)   Appointive officers. All officers and employees of the city, other
than elected officials, shall be paid salaries or fees in such amounts as may
be set from time to time by the City Council.
(Ord. 1656, passed 8-31-1983; Ord. 3104, passed 8-7-2017; Ord. 3223, passed 7-
15-2019; Ord. 3365, passed 8-16-2021; Ord. 3523, passed 8-1-2023)
CHAPTER 3: APPOINTED OFFICERS
Section
   
03-03-01   Appointments
   
03-03-03   Terms of office
   
03-03-05   Removal from office
   
03-03-07   Designation of duties
§ 03-03-01 APPOINTMENTS.
   The Mayor shall appoint, with the approval of a majority of the full City
Council: a City Clerk; City Attorney; Public Works Director; Police Chief; Fire
Chief; Director of Finance; City Treasurer; Director of Aviation; Human
Resources Director; Community Development Director; and Parks and Recreation
Director. The Mayor may appoint, with the approval of a majority of the full
City Council, such other officers as are deemed necessary for the efficient
operation of the business of the municipality. If the Mayor’s nomination for an
appointed office is rejected, the city shall follow the process in Idaho Code §
50-205.
(Ord. 2871, passed 3-7-2011; Ord. 3495, passed 4-4-2023; Ord. 3516, passed 7-5-
2023; Ord. 3617, passed 8-5-2024; Ord. 3640, passed 11-18-2024; Ord. 3701,
passed 8-4-2025)
§ 03-03-03 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   Appointed officers shall hold their position until their resignation or
removal. Removal of an appointed officer may be initiated by the Mayor and
confirmed by majority vote of the full City Council, or by unanimous vote of
the full City Council as provided in Idaho Code § 50-206.
(Ord. 1711, passed 10-14-1985; Ord. 3516, passed 7-5-2023; Ord. 3701, passed 8-
4-2025)
§ 03-03-05 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   The Mayor shall remove from office, by and with the consent and advice of
four members of the City Council, any appointed officer of the city, any member
of the board or commission whose removal from office is not otherwise provided
for.
(Ord. 1118, passed 12-4-1967)
§ 03-03-07 DESIGNATION OF DUTIES.
   Whenever there is a question or dispute as to the respective duties or
powers of any appointed officer of the city, the question or dispute shall be
settled by the Mayor, and the Mayor shall have the power to delegate to any
appointed officer any duty which is to be performed when no specific officer
has been directed to perform that duty.
CHAPTER 5: MAYOR
Section
   
03-05-01   Election
   
03-05-03   Conflicting interests
   
03-05-05   Work hours; office space
   
03-05-07   Vacancies in office
   
03-05-09   Powers and duties
   
03-05-11   Decisions of Council
§ 03-05-01 ELECTION.
   The Mayor shall be elected for a four-year term and shall serve until his or
her successor is elected and qualified as provided by statute. A majority of
the votes for any candidate running for the office of Mayor shall be required
for election to that office. In the event no candidate receives a majority of
the votes cast, there shall be a runoff election between the two candidates
receiving the highest number of votes cast. Said runoff election shall be
conducted in cooperation with the County Clerk as provided by statute.
(Ord. 1048, passed 8-2-1965; Ord. 3322, passed 4-5-2021)
§ 03-05-03 CONFLICTING INTERESTS.
   The Mayor shall not engage in any economic endeavor that conflicts with the
duties of the office. Upon being sworn in as Mayor, the Mayor shall resign any
employment, appointed position or elected position, including a City Council
position, with the city.
(Ord. 2701, passed 9-17-2007)
§ 03-05-05 WORK HOURS; OFFICE SPACE.
   (A)   Work hours. The Mayor shall devote not less than 40 hours per week to
performing the duties of the office, excepting therefrom holiday and vacation
periods as established by the Mayor and Council.
   (B)   Office space. The Mayor and Council shall provide offices in the City
Hall for the Mayor.
(Ord. 1825, passed 10-2-1989)
§ 03-05-07 VACANCIES IN OFFICE.
   In case of a temporary vacancy in the office of Mayor due to absence or
disability, the President of the Council shall exercise the office of Mayor
during such disability or temporary absence and until the Mayor shall return.
When a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor by reason of death, resignation or
permanent disability, the City Council shall fill the vacancy from within or
without the Council as may be deemed in the best interests of the city, and
appointee shall serve until the next general city election, at which election a
Mayor shall be elected for the full four-year term.
§ 03-05-09 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Power and authority. The Mayor shall be the Chief Executive Officer of
the city, shall preside over the meetings of the Council and shall perform such
duties as may be required of him or her by law. He or she shall have
supervision over all of the executive officers and employees of the city and
shall have the power and authority to inspect all books and records pertaining
to city affairs and kept by any officer or employee of the city.
   (B)   Membership on Committees and Commissions. The Mayor shall be an ex
officio member of all committees and commissions existing under the city code.
   (C)   Messages to Council. The Mayor shall deliver to the Council such
information and such recommendations as, in his or her opinion, will be of
benefit to the city.
   (D)   Special meetings. The Mayor shall have the power to call special
meetings of the City Council, the object of which shall be submitted to the
Council in writing; the call and object, as well as the disposition thereof,
shall be entered upon the journal by the Clerk. One-half plus one of the
members of the full Council shall also have the power to call special meetings
of the City Council, the object of which shall be submitted to the Council in
writing; the call and object, as well as the disposition thereof, shall be
entered upon the journal of the Clerk.
   (E)   Mayor to sign contacts. The Mayor is authorized and empowered to sign
his or her name, official for and in behalf of, the municipality on all
contracts, documents and papers to which the municipality is a party, and to
require that the conditions of any instrument are faithfully performed. The
Mayor is authorized and empowered to enter into standard form lease agreements
with tenants at the City Industrial Airport, said standard form lease agreement
being adopted, from time to time, by resolution of the City Council. The Mayor
may borrow money on the credit of the municipality when so authorized by the
Council.
   (F)   Jurisdiction. The Mayor shall have the jurisdiction over all places
within five miles of the corporate limits of the municipality for the
enforcement of any health or quarantine ordinances and regulations and shall
have jurisdiction in all matters, excepting taxation, within one mile of the
corporate limits of the municipality.
   (G)   Requiring aid. The Mayor is hereby authorized to call on every male
inhabitant of the municipality of the age of 21 or over to aid him or her in
enforcing the law.
   (H)   Additional duties. The Mayor shall perform all of the duties required
of Mayors under the provisions of Idaho Code Title 50, Chapter 3, and such
other duties as may be reasonably required by the City Council.
   (I)   Drought conditions. The Mayor is hereby authorized to declare the
existence of drought-like conditions and, with the advice of the Public Works
Director, to defer landscaping requirements for development until a date
certain, said date to extend no further than six months from the date of such
declaration without the consent of the City Council, with such conditions as
the Mayor may deem appropriate.
(Ord. 1118, passed 12-4-1967; Ord. 1188, passed 3-16-1970; Ord. 3321, passed 1-
19-2021; Ord. 3361, passed 8-2-2021)
§ 03-05-11 DECISIONS OF COUNCIL.
   (A)   Vote. The Mayor shall have the vote on any decision to be made by the
Council only when the Council is equally divided.
   (B)   Veto. The Mayor shall have the power to veto or sign any law passed by
the Council; provided, that any law vetoes by the Mayor may be passed over his
or her veto by a vote of two-thirds of the elected members of the Council, and
should the Mayor neglect or refuse to sign any law and return the same with his
or her objections, in writing, at the next regular meeting of the Council, the
same shall become a law without his or her signature.
CHAPTER 7: CITY CLERK
Section
   
03-07-01   Appointment and supervision
   
03-07-03   Qualifications and job requirements
   
03-07-05   Powers and duties
§ 03-07-01 APPOINTMENT AND SUPERVISION.
   There is hereby created the position of City Clerk, a position which shall
be filled by appointment as provided in §
03-03-01. The City Clerk shall work under the general guidance and direction of
the Mayor.
(Ord. 1763, passed 12-7-1987)
§ 03-07-03 QUALIFICATIONS AND JOB REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Required skills and knowledge. The City Clerk shall be or have:
      (1)   Skilled in data entry, typing and general office procedures and
filing systems;
      (2)   Good knowledge of the organization and functions of city
government;
      (3)   Ability to acquire knowledge of state and local statutes pertaining
to Council proceedings; and
      (4)   Ability to write clear and accurate reports on complex subjects.
   (B)   Acceptable education and experience.
      (1)   High school graduate or equivalent;
      (2)   College level courses in business and public administration
preferred; and
      (3)   Considerable experience in city government desirable or an
equivalent combination of education and experience.
   (C)   Necessary special requirements. The City Clerk must be bondable and
must maintain a valid state driver’s license.
(Ord. 1763, passed 12-7-1987)
§ 03-07-05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   General statement of duties. The City Clerk is responsible for all of
the official documents of the municipality and shall act as Clerk of the
governing body. The Clerk performs other duties as assigned or required by the
position.
   (B)   Supervision exercised. The City Clerk supervises a small staff of the
City Clerk’s office.
   (C)   Illustrative examples of duties. The City Clerk:
      (1)   Directs the custody of all ordinances, resolutions, contracts and
all other official documents of the city;
      (2)   Directs the updating of the city code;
      (3)   Attests the Mayor’s signature on official documents of the city;
      (4)   Administers official oaths for the city;
      (5)   Maintains a legislative history record of all items which have
appeared before the Council;
      (6)   Supervises the microfilming and maintenance of all permanent
records of the city;
      (7)   Directs the conduct of all municipal elections;
      (8)   Attends all City Council meetings and acts as Clerk of the Council
at these meetings;
      (9)   Directs the preparation of the official minutes of Council
meetings;
      (10)   Is responsible for all details of Council meetings; prepares and
keeps up to date all records and documents of Council business; prepares
Council agenda; notifies persons when they are in appearance at meetings and
sees that the required documents are assembled and available;
      (11)   Notifies interested parties of Council action;
      (12)   Publishes reports, ordinances and legal notices; maintains custody
of official Council minutes and answers inquiries regarding Council activities;
prepares periodic and special reports of Council activities; and
      (13)   Prepares estimated budget requirements; prepares specialized
technical and financial reports.
(Ord. 1763, passed 12-7-1987)
Cross-reference:
   Election provisions, see
Title 1, Chapter 7 of this code
CHAPTER 9: MAYOR’S ASSISTANT
[Reserved]
(Repealed by Ord. 2219, passed 1-5-1998)
CHAPTER 11: HUMAN RESOURCES DIRECTOR
Section
   
03-11-01   Appointment and supervision
   
03-11-03   Qualifications and job requirements
   
03-11-05   Powers and duties
§ 03-11-01 APPOINTMENT AND SUPERVISION.
   There is hereby created the position of Human Resources Director, a position
which shall be filled by appointment as provided in §
03-03-01. The Human Resources Director shall work under the general guidance
and direction of the Mayor.
(Ord. 2871, passed 3-7-2011)
§ 03-11-03 QUALIFICATIONS AND JOB REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Required skills and knowledge.
      (1)   Good oral and written communication skills and comprehensive
knowledge of office administration principles and practices;
      (2)   Comprehensive knowledge of the general principles of local, state
and federal government organization and operation; and
      (3)   Ability to plan, direct, organize, manage and implement the city’s
compensation and benefits package and personnel policies; ensure compliance
with all federal and state employment practice laws; prepare and deliver oral
presentations; maintain records and prepare reports; prioritize and schedule
work; interpret, apply and explain laws, policies and procedures; and work
independently with little direction.
   (B)   Acceptable education and experience.
      (1)   Graduation from an accredited college or university with a
bachelor’s or higher degree in public administration, business administration
or other related field;
      (2)   Considerable experience in public management and administration;
and
      (3)   Any equivalent combination of experience, education and training
which provides the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to perform the
work.
(Ord. 2871, passed 3-7-2011)
§ 03-11-05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   General statement of duties. The Human Resources Director plans,
directs, organizes, manages and implements the city’s compensation and benefits
package and personnel policies; coordinates with the city officials, department
managers and employees; prepares and develops annual budgets and monitors
expenditures; develops, presents and implements training and educational
materials and programs for city employees; reviews employment laws and policies
to ensure compliance; and develops and administers the city’s compensation and
pay plans.
   (B)   Supervision exercised. The Human Resources Director exercises
oversight for all personnel related activities. He or she works closely with
the Mayor, officials and department heads to coordinate, implement and ensure
policy compliance. Direct supervision is exercised over the human resources
staff.
(Ord. 2871, passed 3-7-2011)
CHAPTER 12: DIRECTOR OF AVIATION
Section
   
03-12-01   Appointment
   
03-12-03   Powers and duties
§ 03-12-01 APPOINTMENT.
   The Director of Aviation shall be appointed as provided in §
03-03-01 and shall hold office for the duration of the appointment unless
sooner removed by the Mayor with the concurrence of the Council.
(Ord. 3495, passed 4-4-2023)
§ 03-12-03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Director of Aviation shall be responsible for aviation activities
in the city and the general operation of the Caldwell Executive Airport.
   (B)   The Director of Aviation shall at all times have authority to take
such action as may be necessary for the handling, policing, protection and
safeguarding the public while present at the airport and to regulate vehicular
traffic at the airport.
   (C)   The Director of Aviation shall report directly to the Mayor.
   (D)   The Director of Aviation supervises the Airport Manager and
individuals employed as administrative assistants and other office staff
assisting with the management of the Caldwell Executive Airport.
(Ord. 3495, passed 4-4-2023)
CHAPTER 13: CITY ATTORNEY
Section
   
03-13-01   Appointment
   
03-13-03   Powers and duties
§ 03-13-01 APPOINTMENT.
   The City Attorney shall be appointed as provided in §
03-03-01. He or she shall hold office for the duration of his or her
appointment unless sooner removed by the Mayor with the concurrence of the
Council.
§ 03-13-03 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Advice. The Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the municipality
and shall render advice on all legal questions affecting the municipality
whenever requested to do so by any municipal official. Upon request by the
Mayor or by the City Council, he or she shall reduce any such opinion to
writing.
   (B)   Suits and actions. The City Attorney shall prosecute and defend any
and all suits or actions at law or equity to which the municipality may be a
party, or in which it may be interested, or which may be brought against or by
any officer of the municipality on behalf of the municipality, or in the
capacity of such person as an officer of the municipality.
   (C)   Enforce judgments. It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to see to
the full enforcement of all judgments or decrees rendered or entered in favor
of the municipality, and of all similar interlocutory orders.
   (D)   Special assessments. It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to see
to the completion of all special assessment proceedings and condemnation
proceedings.
   (E)   Ordinances and documents. It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to
draft or supervise the phraseology of any contract, lease or other document or
instrument, to which the municipality may be a party and, upon the request of
the City Council, to draft ordinances covering any subjects within the power of
the municipality.
CHAPTER 15: CITY TREASURER
Section
   
03-15-01   General statement of duties
   
03-15-03   Supervision received
   
03-15-05   Supervision exercised
   
03-15-07   Essential duties
   
03-15-09   Other essential duties (illustrative only)
   
03-15-11   Required knowledge, skills and abilities
   
03-15-13   Acceptable experience and training
§ 03-15-01 GENERAL STATEMENT OF DUTIES.
   Performs a variety of administrative, supervisory and professional tasks
related to the directing, controlling and monitoring of the day-to-day cash
management activities of the city; provides highly responsible and complex
administrative and policy support to the organization; assists city departments
in cash management and related financing activities; makes recommendations
regarding the implementation of cash procedures and policies; and performs
related work as required.
(Ord. 3447, passed 8-18-2022)
§ 03-15-03 SUPERVISION RECEIVED.
   Appointed by the Mayor with consent of the City Council. Works under the
direct supervision of the Mayor and the Council’s Finance Committee.
(Ord. 3447, passed 8-18-2022)
§ 03-15-05 SUPERVISION EXERCISED.
   Hires, trains, supervises and evaluates all Finance Department staff.
(Ord. 3447, passed 8-18-2022)
§ 03-15-07 ESSENTIAL DUTIES.
   The Treasurer shall be the custodian of all monies belonging to the city;
shall account for each fund or appropriation made in its annual budget
appropriation or otherwise directed by the City Council. Such accounting shall
track the debits and credits relating thereto; shall render a monthly
accounting to the City Council; shall also make available credit and debit
details of all such accounts when required by the Mayor or by action of the
governing board; shall make quarterly Treasurer’s reports for public view;
shall keep a record of all outstanding bonds against the city showing the
number, amount of each and to whom said bonds were issued and when any bonds
are purchased, paid or canceled; shall make an annual report; and shall, upon
notification by the State Controller, comply with the accounting and fiscal
reporting requirements set forth in the uniform accounting manual for local
governmental entities authorized under Idaho Code § 67-1075. The Treasurer
shall also have any additional duties described in Idaho Code § 50-208.
(Ord. 3447, passed 8-18-2022)
§ 03-15-09 OTHER ESSENTIAL DUTIES (ILLUSTRATIVE ONLY).
   (A)   Directs, manages and evaluates the financial service operations,
programs and activities of the city;
   (B)   Develops investment strategies in consultation with the Finance
Director;
   (C)   Prepares the monthly Council cash report;
   (D)   Trains city personnel in cash management policies and procedures;
   (E)   Prepares the city’s annual financial report and reviews the auditing
procedure to ensure compliance with state and federal regulations;
   (F)   Coordinates the activities of the audit staff members in cooperation
with other departments to ensure a proper, efficient and responsible use of the
financial management information system;
   (G)   Directs the strategic planning, policy development, data collections
and reporting activities of the Finance Department;
   (H)   Oversees all general city accounting, including monitoring accounts
payables, utility billing and payroll and other financial resources;
   (I)   Analyzes the city’s daily cash flow to determine the necessary
operating cash balances and invests all excess funds to ensure safety,
liquidity and yield;
   (J)   Works closely with department directors and managers to provide cash
management policy guidance and to follow-up on director’s assignments;
   (K)   Notifies the Finance Director, Mayor and department directors on
financial issues;
   (L)   Oversees, reconciles and accounts for all city revenue and monitors
utility account receipts;
   (M)   Accounting software: coordinates computer support for financial and
bank software and modules; provides staff training; resolves operation related
issues and staff questions; and assists in establishing security access for
administrative staff;
   (N)   City Urban Renewal Agency: assists Finance Director in audit and
budget preparation;
   (O)   Library: provides cash management support to the Library Director,
including recommending and managing investments and maintaining investment
policies;
   (P)   Grants: files federal and state grant reports and prepares SEFA and
audit schedules;
   (Q)   Debt: responsible for bond covenant compliance and annual reporting;
   (R)   Budget: prepares initial extended Budgeting Department reports; trains
city staff in budget report preparation and submission; and uploads and
reconciles adopted budget files into extended budgeting and general ledger;
   (S)   Assists in annual budget preparations; edits, updates and creates
budget reports; uploads the annual budget tracking software; monitors budget
revenues and disbursements; and prepares monthly Council Revenue and Cash
Report;
   (T)   Monitors budgetary activities and investigates exceptions;
   (U)   Prepares the annual budget amendment, including gathering all dates,
analyzing results and presenting a final report to the Finance Director, Mayor,
City Council and the public;
   (V)   Provides recommendations to the Finance Director, City Council,
department directors and city employees on proper internal controls, budgeting
practices, financing methods and other cash management functions;
   (W)   Responsible for distribution of annual budget;
   (X)   Audit: prepares year-end statements, audit schedules, worksheets, cash
and investment audit work papers, and footnotes associated with the city’s
Annual Finance Report, and provides technical information to auditors;
completes year-end closing entries; assists with audit fieldwork; interfaces
with external auditors to respond to questions or requests for information;
maintains the reporting system within the city’s engagement system and
supporting schedules; and distributes annual audits to Federal Clearing House
agencies;
   (Y)   Records closing journal entries to general ledger;
   (Z)   Maintains current knowledge of organizational policies and procedures
relating to federal and state policies, directives and current accounting
standards;
   (AA)   Prepares or directs the preparation of financial statements, audit
work papers, financial position forecasts, budget status reports and other
requested reports;
   (BB)   Staff support: cross-trains in accounting tasks and all application
modules in Springbrook Financial Software;
   (CC)   Hires, trains, supervises and evaluates all Finance Department staff;
   (DD)   Keeps immediate supervisor and designated others fully and accurately
informed concerning work progress, including present and potential work
problems and suggestions for new or improved ways of addressing such problems;
   (EE)   Attends approved meetings, conferences, workshops, training sessions
and reviews publications and audio-visual materials to become and remain
current on the principles, practices and new developments in assigned work
areas;
   (FF)   Responds to citizens’ questions and comments in a courteous and
timely manner;
   (GG)   Trains, assigns, prioritizes, supervises, motivates and evaluates the
work of assigned employees;
   (HH)   Communicates and respects the opinions of others and maintains a
positive and professional working relationship with city officials, employees,
supervisors and others; and
   (II)   Perform all other duties as may be assigned by the Mayor or Mayor and
Council.
(Ord. 3447, passed 8-18-2022)
§ 03-15-11 REQUIRED KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS AND ABILITIES.
   (A)   Demonstrated knowledge of the principles and practices of public
administration, specifically municipal government and finance;
   (B)   Demonstrated knowledge of the general principles of local, state and
federal government organization and operation;
   (C)   Demonstrated knowledge of banking practices;
   (D)   Demonstrated knowledge of and ability to apply effective management
techniques and budgetary procedures;
   (E)   Demonstrated knowledge of the duties, responsibilities and authorities
of each department within the city;
   (F)   Demonstrated knowledge of the practices, methods and laws related to
municipal bond financing;
   (G)   Thorough knowledge of methods and procedures involved in the receipt
and disbursement of large sums of money;
   (H)   Working knowledge of the principles of supervision;
   (I)   Ability to evaluate complex financial systems and efficiently
formulate and install accounting methods, procedures, forms and records as it
relates to budgeting;
   (J)   Ability to prepare and explain financial reports;
   (K)   Ability to prepare long-range fiscal forecasts and budgeting;
   (L)   Ability to perform financial analysis;
   (M)   Ability to plan, lay out, supervise and coordinate the work of a small
staff of employees;
   (N)   Ability to communicate clearly and effectively, both verbally and in
writing;
   (O)   Ability to utilize active listening techniques;
   (P)   Ability to utilize long-range planning skills for the development of
department plans;
   (Q)   Ability to deal tactfully with citizens, subordinates, department
staff and local, state and federal representatives;
   (R)   Ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships with
elected officials, city supervisor and employees, business leaders, other
government agencies and general public;
   (S)   Ability to train, assign, motivate, supervise and evaluate the work of
others;
   (T)   Ability to operate a personal computer using program applications
appropriate to assigned duties and responsibilities;
   (U)   Ability to quickly learn and put to use new skills and knowledge
brought about by rapidly changing information and/or technology; and
   (V)   Integrity, ingenuity and inventiveness in the performance of assigned
tasks.
(Ord. 3447, passed 8-18-2022)
§ 03-15-13 ACCEPTABLE EXPERIENCE AND TRAINING.
   (A)   Graduation from an accredited college or university with a bachelor’s
or master’s degree in public administration, finance or other related field;
   (B)   Five years of progressively responsible finance and accounting
experience in public and financial management and administration; and/or
   (C)   Any equivalent combination of experience, education and training which
provides the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to perform the work.
(Ord. 3447, passed 8-18-2022)
CHAPTER 16: CITY FINANCE DIRECTOR
Section
   
03-16-01   General statement of duties
   
03-16-03   Supervision received
   
03-16-05   Essential duties
   
03-16-07   Required knowledge, skills and abilities
   
03-16-09   Acceptable experience and training
§ 03-16-01 GENERAL STATEMENT OF DUTIES.
   Oversees the financial operations of the city; assists in driving the city’s
financial strategy and planning; directs city departments in financial matters;
project reporting; makes recommendations and implements internal controls,
financial procedures and policies; and performs related work as required.
(Ord. 3447, passed 8-18-2022)
§ 03-16-03 SUPERVISION RECEIVED.
   Appointed by the Mayor with consent of the City Council. Works under the
direct supervision of the Mayor and the Council’s Finance Committee.
(Ord. 3447, passed 8-18-2022)
§ 03-16-05 ESSENTIAL DUTIES.
   (A)   Plans, develops and evaluates the operational processes, procedures,
functions and policies of the Finance Department;
   (B)   Retains constant awareness of the city’s financial position and acts
to prevent problems;
   (C)   Manages, trains, assigns, prioritizes, motivates and evaluates the
work, projects, activities and sets targets for assigned employees;
   (D)   Conducts analysis to make forecasts and reports to the City Council
and Mayor;
   (E)   Implements the vision, policies, procedures and capital projects of
the city as directed by the Mayor and City Council;
   (F)   Works closely with department directors and managers to provide
financial policy guidance and to follow-up on Mayoral assignments;
   (G)   Initiates and follows through on administrative, budget and fiscal
planning activities;
   (H)   Develops and directs the implementation of finance related goals,
objectives, policies, procedures and work practices;
   (I)   Prepares and recommends long-range financial plans for city services
and programs; and develops specific proposals for action on current and future
city needs;
   (J)   Oversees the city’s budget by managing the development and
implementation of goals and priorities; and meets with departments to review
work plans and budgeting needs;
   (K)   Establishes appropriate service and staffing levels; and assesses and
monitors staff workload and support systems;
   (L)   Reviews and analyzes financial methods, activities and performance to
find ways to increase effectiveness and improve results and/or the effect on
economies;
   (M)   Makes clear and concise presentations to the City Council;
   (N)   Presents the Mayor’s recommended budgets to the City Council and
general public;
   (O)   Responsible for city municipal financing and bonding; and works with
bonding agencies to initiate and apply for needed financing;
   (P)   Provides recommendations to the City Council, department directors,
accountants and city employees on proper internal controls, budgeting
practices, financing methods and other accounting functions;
   (Q)   Directs the centralized accounting and reporting function for the
city;
   (R)   Maintains current knowledge of organizational policies and procedures,
federal and state policies and directives and current accounting standards;
   (S)   Directs pre-audit and internal audit functions;
   (T)   Serves as a liaison to external independent audits;
   (U)   Responds to information requests from departments on accounting
systems and reporting requirements;
   (V)   Prepares and directs the preparation of the annual budget, business
activity reports, financial position forecasts and other required reports;
   (W)   Monitors, interprets and evaluates changes in laws and regulations
related to financial activities and functions;
   (X)   Develops and prepares ordinances, regulations, policies and procedures
and revisions related to financial activities;
   (Y)   Keeps immediate supervisor and designated others fully and accurately
informed concerning work progress, including present and potential work
problems and suggestions for new or improved ways of addressing such problems;
   (Z)   Attends approved meetings, conferences, workshops, training sessions
and reviews publications and audio-visual materials to become and remain
current on the principles, practices and new developments in assigned work
areas;
   (AA)   Responds to citizens’ questions and comments in a courteous and
timely manner;
   (BB)   Communicates and coordinates regularly with others to maximize the
effectiveness and efficiency of interdepartmental operations and activities;
   (CC)   Advises the Mayor and department directors on financial issues and
projects;
   (DD)   Establishes financial priorities and objectives which often affect
multiple departments;
   (EE)   Creates, organizes, appoints and directs members of inter-
departmental committees for the purpose of addressing citywide financial or
project related needs;
   (FF)   Maintains an effective relationship with the City Council by
recommending financial policies, providing reports and developing methods for
carrying out the Council’s intentions that are in compliance with ordinances
and in the best interest of the citizens of the city;
   (GG)   Informs and advises the City Council on significant administrative
actions, controversial matters and public interactions; and
   (HH)   Develops, recommends and implements financial policies to attain the
long- and short-range goals of the city.
(Ord. 3447, passed 8-18-2022)
§ 03-16-07 REQUIRED KNOWLEDGE, SKILLS AND ABILITIES.
   (A)   Extensive knowledge of the principles and practices of public
administration, specifically municipal government and finance;
   (B)   Extensive knowledge of the general principles of local, state and
federal government organization and operation;
   (C)   Thorough knowledge of and ability to apply effective management
techniques and budgetary procedures;
   (D)   Good knowledge of the duties, responsibilities and authorities of each
department within the city;
   (E)   Good knowledge of economic development, redevelopment and capital
project theories, practices and methods;
   (F)   Good knowledge of the practices, methods and laws related to municipal
bond financing;
   (G)   Ability to evaluate complex financial systems and efficiently
formulate and install accounting methods, procedures, forms and records as it
relates to budgeting;
   (H)   Ability to prepare informative financial reports;
   (I)   Ability to conduct long-range fiscal planning and budgeting;
   (J)   Ability to perform financial analysis;
   (K)   Ability to communicate clearly and effectively, both verbally and in
writing;
   (L)   Ability to utilize active listening techniques;
   (M)   Ability to plan and organize city operating staff to carry out the
overall goals of the city;
   (N)   Ability to utilize long-range planning skills for the development of
department plans;
   (O)   Ability to deal tactfully with citizens, subordinates, department
staff and local, state and federal representatives;
   (P)   Ability to implement and sustain annual work plans of departments;
   (Q)   Ability to supervise and direct complex and diverse municipal
operations;
   (R)   Ability to provide sound administrative analysis relating to policy
and management issues;
   (S)   Ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships with
Council, employees, business leaders and the general public;
   (T)   Ability to train, assign, motivate, supervise and evaluate the work of
others;
   (U)   Ability to operate a personal computer using program applications
appropriate to assigned duties and responsibilities;
   (V)   Ability to quickly learn and put to use new skills and knowledge
brought about by rapidly changing information and/or technology; and
   (W)   Integrity, ingenuity and inventiveness in the performance of assigned
tasks.
(Ord. 3447, passed 8-18-2022)
§ 03-16-09 ACCEPTABLE EXPERIENCE AND TRAINING.
   (A)   Graduation from an accredited college or university with a bachelor’s
or master’s degree in public administration, finance or other related field;
   (B)   Extensive experience in public and financial management and
administration; and
   (C)   Any equivalent combination of experience, education and training which
provides the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to perform the work.
(Ord. 3447, passed 8-18-2022)
CHAPTER 17: CHIEF OF POLICE
Section
   
03-17-01   Appointment
   
03-17-03   Qualifications and job requirements
   
03-17-05   Powers and duties
§ 03-17-01 APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby created the position of Chief of Police, a position which
shall be filled as provided in §
03-03-01. The Chief of Police works under the general guidance and direction of
the Mayor.
(Ord. 1766, passed 12-7-1987)
§ 03-17-03 QUALIFICATIONS AND JOB REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Required skill, knowledge and abilities.
      (1)   Considerable knowledge of laws, codes, statutes, ordinances,
policies and procedures and standard police operations.
      (2)   Ability to supervise, schedule and coordinate activities of staff.
To represent the Department effectively; to communicate clearly and concisely,
both orally and in writing; to establish and maintain effective working
relationships; and, to make sound decisions.
   (B)   Acceptable education and experience. The Chief of Police shall have a
bachelor’s degree and ten years of municipal law enforcement experience, or an
equivalent combination of education and experience.
   (C)   Necessary special requirements. The Chief of Police shall have and
maintain a valid state driver’s license.
(Ord. 1766, passed 12-7-1987)
§ 03-17-05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Relating to the Police Department.
      (1)   Responsible for the operation, administration and coordination of
the City Police Department;
      (2)   Performs other duties as assigned or required by the position; and
      (3)   Exercises supervision of officers and staff directly or through
subordinate supervisors.
   (B)   Illustrative examples of duties.
      (1)   Coordinates activities in law enforcement and security for the
protection of life and property;
      (2)   Delegates work activities and duties to division commanders as
appropriate;
      (3)   Develops and administers schools and conferences;
      (4)   Directs and reviews planning, research and budget activities;
      (5)   Administers the Department’s personnel system, including
recruitment, promotions, performance evaluations, discipline, counseling and
assignments;
      (6)   Provides for the execution of all departmental and city rules,
regulations, policies and procedures;
      (7)   Confers with citizens concerning complaints, problems, requests,
suggestions and directs action when appropriate;
      (8)   Routinely shares information with Mayor and City Council and
submits monthly report of activity and trends;
      (9)   Performs a wide variety of public relations functions;
      (10)   Attends meetings, serves on committees and boards, representing
the Department and the city; attends conferences and meeting with
representatives of other law enforcement and allied agencies;
      (11)   Develops and maintains liaison with local, state and county law
enforcement agencies and private entities; and
      (12)   On call 24 hours each day.
   (C)   Recovered and stolen property. The Chief of Police and his or her
designated agents shall have the custody of all lost, abandoned or stolen
property recovered within the municipality.
(Ord. 1766, passed 12-7-1987)
Cross-reference:
   Provisions on the Police Department, see
Title 2, Chapter 3
CHAPTER 19: FIRE CHIEF
Section
   
03-19-01   Appointment
   
03-19-03   Qualifications and job requirements
   
03-19-05   Powers and duties
§ 03-19-01 APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby created the position of Fire Chief, a position which shall
be filled as provided in §
03-03-01. The Fire Chief works under the general guidance and direction of the
Mayor.
(Ord. 1767, passed 12-7-1987)
§ 03-19-03 QUALIFICATIONS AND JOB REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Required skills, knowledge and abilities.
      (1)   Considerable knowledge of applicable laws, codes, statutes,
ordinances and standard Fire Department operations; and
      (2)   Ability to:
         (a)   Supervise, schedule and coordinate activities of staff and
represent the Department effectively;
         (b)   Communicate clearly and concisely both orally and in writing;
and
         (c)   Establish and maintain effective working relationships and make
sound decisions.
   (B)   Acceptable education and experience. The Fire Chief shall have a
bachelor’s degree and ten years of progressive Fire Department experience or an
equivalent combination of education and experience.
   (C)   Necessary special requirements. The Fire Chief shall have and maintain
a valid state driver’s license.
(Ord. 1767, passed 12-7-1987)
§ 03-19-05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Relating to the Fire Department. The Fire Chief is responsible for the
operation, administration and coordination of the City Fire Department.
Performs other duties as assigned or required by the position. The Fire Chief
supervises all full-time and volunteer personnel of the Department directly or
through subordinate supervisors.
   (B)   Illustrative examples of duties.
      (1)   Assures the proper manning of shifts;
      (2)   Is responsible for hiring, promotion, disciplining and termination
of employees;
      (3)   Coordinates with schools and other agencies for fire prevention
training;
      (4)   Evaluates the effectiveness of the Department, maintains records
and prepares reports regarding the activities of the Department;
      (5)   Oversees the maintenance and upkeep of equipment and building;
      (6)   Acts with full command and police authority while at the scene of
fires or alarms of fires;
      (7)   Prepares the budgets for the Department, including requisitions for
purchase of new equipment;
      (8)   Purchases all Department supplies;
      (9)   Provides for the execution of all applicable Departmental and city
rules, regulations, policies and procedures;
      (10)   Provides public relations services; and
      (11)   Shall be on call 24 hours each day.
(Ord. 1767, passed 12-7-1987)
Cross-reference:
   Further provisions on the Fire Department, see
Title 2, Chapter 5 of this code
CHAPTER 21: RESERVED
[Reserved]
CHAPTER 22: PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR
Section
   
03-22-01   Appointment
   
03-22-03   Qualifications and job requirements
   
03-22-05   Powers and duties
§ 03-22-01 APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby created the office of Public Works Director. The Public
Works Director shall be appointed as provided in §
03-02-01. The Public Works Director works under the broad policy guidance and
direction of the Mayor.
(Ord. 3408, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 03-22-03 QUALIFICATIONS AND JOB REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Required skills, knowledge and abilities.
      (1)   Good administrative, supervisory, communication and problem-solving
skills are required;
      (2)   Knowledge of:
         (a)   Generally-accepted engineering and construction practices;
         (b)   Accounting and budgeting practices;
         (c)   Equipment specifications and maintenance requirements; and
         (d)   Construction and property surveying techniques.
      (3)   Knowledge of city codes and ordinances; and
      (4)   Ability to deal with suppliers, contractors and the general public
and administer large-scale public works contracts.
   (B)   Acceptable education and experience. The Public Works Director shall
have a Bachelor of Science degree in engineering and at least six years of
managerial experience in municipal public works or related field and experience
in property and construction surveying or an equivalent combination in
education and experience.
   (C)   Necessary special requirements. The Public Works Director shall have
and maintain a valid state driver’s license and shall be a licensed civil
engineer with the state.
(Ord. 3408, passed 3-21-2022)
§ 03-22-05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   General statement of duties. The Public Works Director is responsible
for management of all of the public works functions of the city.
   (B)   Supervision exercised. He or she supervises a large number of
departmental personnel either directly or through subordinate supervisors.
   (C)   Illustrative examples of duties.
      (1)   Overall supervision of the activities of the Sewer Department,
Street Department, Building Department, Airport Department and Water
Department;
      (2)   Prepares the annual budget for appropriate departments under the
supervision of the Public Works Director;
      (3)   Advises the Mayor and City Council on a wide range of city-related
topics such as contracts, purchasing, personnel, engineering and developmental
impacts to city facilities or services;
      (4)   Reviews subdivisions and proposed public facilities and services as
needed;
      (5)   Supervises preparation and approval of Public Works Department
equipment specifications;
      (6)   Coordinates the work of consultants when hired by the city to
prepare specialty reports or design specifications;
      (7)   Assists in developing capital improvement schedules for all
departments of the city;
      (8)   Serves as member of Grievance Review Board;
      (9)   Prepares long-term facility improvement plans for Public Works
Department; and
      (10)   Serves as Chair of the City Traffic Commission.
(Ord. 3408, passed 3-21-2022; Ord. 3585, passed 3-19-2024)
CHAPTER 23: PLANNING AND ZONING DIRECTOR
Section
   
03-23-01   Appointment
   
03-23-03   Qualifications and job requirements
   
03-23-05   Powers and duties
   
03-23-07   Education and experience
§ 03-23-01 APPOINTMENT.
   There is hereby created the position of Planning and Zoning Director. The
Planning and Zoning Director shall be appointed as provided in §
03-03-01. The Planning and Zoning Director works under the broad policy
guidance and direction of the Mayor.
(Ord. 2871, passed 3-7-2011)
§ 03-23-03 QUALIFICATIONS AND JOB REQUIREMENTS.
   Required skills, knowledge and abilities are as follows:
   (A)   Good oral and written communication skills; public speaking
techniques; budget preparation and control; and interpersonal skills using
tact, patience and courtesy;
   (B)   Knowledge of current planning and zoning development laws; principles
and practices of administration, supervision and training; laws, rules and
regulations related to assigned activities; and technical aspects of community
development, economic development, historic preservation and planning and
zoning; and
   (C)   Ability to plan, organize, coordinate and direct the city’s community
development program; coordinate and assure proper implementation and
enforcement of Planning and Zoning Codes; train, assign, supervise and evaluate
the performance of assigned personnel; prepare and deliver oral presentations;
maintain records and prepare reports; prioritize and schedule work; interpret,
apply and explain rules, regulations, policies and procedures; and work
independently with little direction.
(Ord. 2871, passed 3-7-2011)
§ 03-23-05 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Planning and Zoning Director plans, organizes, coordinates and directs
the city’s planning and zoning and community development programs; coordinates
with the Building Official, City Engineer, Public Works Director and the Fire
Chief; prepares and develops preliminary annual budgets and monitors and
controls expenditures; develops and reviews grants and special project
applications; communicates with developers and contractors related to proposed
projects; develops, presents and implements training and educational materials
and programs for members of the Planning and Zoning Commission, City Council,
community groups, citizens and city staff; reviews staff reports for
consistency and compliance with city and department policies and sound
management; develops and recommends strategies and policies for growth
management and land use; reviews and recommends development of city codes to
regulate development; develops, submits and explains policy recommendations;
coordinates and discusses long range plans with other public jurisdictions.
(Ord. 2871, passed 3-7-2011)
§ 03-23-07 EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE.
   Any combination equivalent to bachelor’s degree in urban planning, public
administration or related field and five years’ increasingly responsible
experience in community development, urban planning and economic development or
master’s degree and/or certification by the American Institute of Certified
Planners preferred.
(Ord. 2871, passed 3-7-2011)
TITLE 4: PUBLIC WORKS AND PROPERTY
   Chapter
      
1.   WATER REGULATIONS, GENERALLY
      
3.   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
      
5.   SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
      
7.   SEWER USE AND MANAGEMENT
      
9.   CEMETERY
      
11.   AIRPORT RULES AND REGULATIONS; MINIMUM STANDARDS
      
13.   TREES
      
15.   DUTCH ELM DISEASE
      
17.   IRRIGATION UTILITY
      
19.   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL/GRADING
CHAPTER 1: WATER REGULATIONS, GENERALLY
Section
   
04-01-01   Water Department
   
04-01-03   Definitions
   
04-01-05   Applicability
   
04-01-07   Powers and authority of city authorized representative
   
04-01-09   Water connections, construction regulations
   
04-01-11   Restrictions on water use
   
04-01-13   Upkeep of service pipes and fixtures
   
04-01-15   Water user charges and fees
   
04-01-17   Billing accounting
   
04-01-19   Utility Board established
   
04-01-21   Right of city to turn off the water supply
   
04-01-23   Failure of water supply
   
04-01-25   Prohibited acts
   
04-01-27   Termination for noncompliance
   
04-01-29   Saving clause
   
04-01-31   Penalties
§ 04-01-01 WATER DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Department established. There is hereby established a Water Department
which shall consist of such personnel as may be provided by the Mayor and the
City Council and the operation of which shall be under the direction of the
Water Superintendent.
   (B)   Responsibility. It shall be the responsibility of all members of the
Water Department to operate and maintain all the equipment and facilities used
in the procurement and delivery of domestic water and take every possible
precaution to, at all times, ensure the purity of the water and safety and
health of the public.
(Ord. 1618, passed 10-12-1982)
§ 04-01-03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Caldwell, Canyon County, Idaho, or its authorized or
designated agent, representative or deputy thereof.
   CITY WATER SERVICE LINE. The portion of a water service line that runs from
its connection with the city water main to and including the corporation stop,
valve box and meter yoke installed in the service line. The water service is
owned and maintained by the city and will usually be installed within the
limits of the public right-of-way or utility easement.
   CITY WATER SYSTEM. Includes all components and facilities of the water
system that is owned, operated and maintained by the city to provide domestic
water supply.
   MASTER WATER PLAN. Any document which the city has accepted or may accept by
official action of the City Council which describes or otherwise indicates an
overall view of proposed future water needs, water main sizing and/or water
main spacing.
   OWNER. Refers to the property owner, tenant, developer, lease holder and the
like that is served by the city water system.
   PRIVATE FIRE SERVICE CONNECTION. A separate and independent connection from
the city water main that connects directly to a sprinkler system or fire
control device that has been, or is to be, installed in any building for the
purpose of fire control within the specific building and said connection is to
be for no other purpose.
   PRIVATE WATER SERVICE LINE. The water service line from the city water meter
to and throughout the property and building being served.
   PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM. Any domestic water system that is not owned, operated
or maintained by the city.
   PROPERTY. Refers to all property, whether privately or publicly owned,
within the service limits of the city water system, excluding therefrom lands
that have been dedicated for public street or highway rights-of-way.
   WATER MAIN. Any pipe owned by the city for the purpose of transportation
and/or distribution of water to serve more than one water service line or user.
(Ord. 1618, passed 10-12-1982; Ord. 2831, passed 5-17-2010)
§ 04-01-05 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all property within the
corporate limits of the city and any special users outside of the corporate
limits of the city, including all property owned or occupied by the United
States of America, the state and the county.
(Ord. 1618, passed 10-12-1982)
§ 04-01-07 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF CITY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE.
   The city, through its authorized representative bearing proper credentials
and identification, shall be permitted at proper and reasonable hours of the
day to enter all properties, premises or buildings to which water is furnished
from the city water system for testing or for any other purpose necessary for
the proper administration of the water system in accordance with provisions of
this chapter, regardless of the presence or lack thereof of any easements. All
entry and subsequent work, if any, on said properties, premises or buildings
shall be done in a workmanlike manner. Also, the city, through its authorized
representative bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be
permitted to enter all private properties through which the city holds an
easement for the purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
repair and maintenance of any portion of the city water system lying within
said easements. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement shall
be done in a workmanlike manner.
(Ord. 2831, passed 5-17-2010)
§ 04-01-09 WATER CONNECTIONS, CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Separate connections required. Each separate building shall be
connected with the water main through a city water service line, which includes
a meter. Each individual airport hangar unit, even if all airport hangars are
contained within the same building, shall be connected individually with the
water main through a city water service line, which includes a meter. The
city’s portion of the water service line ends at the meter. Individual service
requirements for condominium projects shall be as per §
11-04-05. Subsequent to investigation by the City Engineer, the City Council
may grant permission for a single meter to serve more than one water consumer.
Upon a granting of an exemption, the base water rate shall be adjusted to
reflect the number of water consumers on a single meter.
   (B)   Application for service connection and permit to use water.
Application to have a city water service, including a meter, installed shall be
made by the owner of the premises to the Water Superintendent or other assigned
officer. The application shall contain a full, true and accurate statement of
the size of the connection, a description of the premises upon which such
connection is to be made, together with the full name of such owners to conform
to the rules and regulations provided for the city water system. No water shall
be introduced into any connection heretofore or hereafter made therewith unless
the permit has first been approved by the Water Superintendent or other
designated officer, and all fees set forth in the rate schedule adopted by
resolution of the City Council have been paid.
   (C)   Meters property of the city. All meters shall be and remain the
property of the city, and in the event of a meter getting out of order and
failing to register, the consumer shall be charged in accordance with the rate
schedule adopted by resolution of the City Council.
   (D)   Private water service line. All materials and workmanship used in the
installation of private water service lines shall conform to city
specifications and codes. The furnishing of all labor and materials shall be
the sole responsibility of the owner.
   (E)   Private fire service connection. The installation of a private fire
service connection shall comply in all respects to the requirements for a city
water service line, and the owner or his or her agent will be required to pay
for all costs for connection and extension of the facility from the city water
main.
   (F)   No connections outside the city. Requests for water line connections
outside the city limits are governed by the “service connection policy outside
the city limits,” which policy shall be adopted by resolution of the City
Council except by special permit granted by the City Council.
   (G)   Extension of city water mains and water main fee.
      (1)   All proposed extensions of the city water mains to service
undeveloped areas within the existing corporate limits or newly annexed areas
shall comply with existing policies, specifications, master plans or
requirements established by the City Engineer. The plans for all extensions to
the city water mains shall be prepared under the direction of and signed by a
registered professional engineer as per the licensing requirements of the state
code, and three copies of said plans shall be filed with the city. In approving
a plan for extension to the city water mains, the city reserves the right to
stipulate other requirements such as a special permit fee, rights-of-way
limits, sequence of construction, time limits for having existing service
disrupted, the filing of a financial guarantee and other similar measures as
may be required to protect the public. No work shall commence on any such
extension of the city water mains until the extension project has been approved
by the City Council and a written permit has been issued. A permit shall not be
issued until all applicable fees have been paid.
      (2)   All water main extensions and appurtenances made for the purpose of
serving the development shall be constructed at the expense of the landowner
and/or developer by a qualified contractor in accordance with city
specifications and subject to conditions and fees which may be established by
the city.
      (3)   The city shall charge a water main fee on all new buildings and
developments that will be provided water service. The amount of the fee and the
methods of derivation shall be in accordance with the rate schedule adopted by
resolution of the City Council.
   (H)   Requirements for extending water service outside the city limits. All
extensions of water service outside the city limits shall be recommended by the
City Engineer and approved by the City Council on a case-by-case basis. Said
extensions of service shall be granted only when in the best interest of the
city. The extension of service is a privilege and not a right. In determining
whether to allow an extension of water service, the following criteria shall be
considered.
      (1)   The extension of water service only shall not be permitted except
by approval of the City Council.
      (2)   The City Council may, at its option, require prepayment of water
hookup fees.
      (3)   The extent to which the extension of water service would create an
adverse impact upon existing facilities or create economic burdens for future
operation and maintenance of the city water system.
      (4)   Water main extensions shall be made at no cost to the city. Mains
shall be adequately sized for future growth, and no credit will be allowed for
additional costs associated with oversized mains required by the city either
within the proposed development or in the extension of city lines.
      (5)   The extent to which the city water system has adequate capacity to
serve existing development, the proposed development for which the extension is
requested and all probable development within the extension requested, and all
probable development within the city and between the city and the proposed
development.
      (6)   The owner of the proposed development must consent to annexation by
the city and at the city’s option and convenience. This agreement will be
binding on the development.
   (I)   Construction methods and materials. The materials and methods used for
construction of city water service lines, private water service lines, water
mains or water system appurtenances shall conform to the requirements of all
codes and specifications as may be adopted by the City Council. The city may
reject any materials or workmanship for cause and, upon such order, the
rejected materials shall be removed and replaced with approved material.
   (J)   Illegal connections.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make or cause to be made any
connection with the city water main or to introduce or cause to be introduced
water from the city water main into any connection made therewith unless a
permit has been first duly issued for such purpose by the Building Inspector in
compliance and conformity with the provisions of this chapter and the rules and
regulations of the city that are now or may hereafter be established therefor;
or to cause a connection to become in noncompliance with the provisions of this
chapter and the rules and regulations of the city that are now or may hereafter
be established; or to interfere with or injure any hydrant, pipe connection,
meter or any property of the city water system. Violation of this provision
shall be a misdemeanor.
      (2)   The city, by and through the Building Inspector, shall give notice
in writing to the owner and/or occupant of any premises connected to and served
by city water main in all cases in which said connections are illegal. Said
notice shall state the violation and require that the violations be cured
within 30 days from notice thereof or water service will be discontinued.
      (3)   In the event that said illegal connection continues beyond the 30-
day period, the city is authorized to discontinue water service to said
premises without further notice and until said illegal connection is
discontinued.
      (4)   A violation of this provision is a misdemeanor.
   (K)   Fees.
      (1)   Service connection fees. In addition to any inspection fees, main
extension fees and impact fees, the developer shall be required to pay a
service connection fee. The amount of the service connection fee shall be in
accordance with the rate schedule adopted by resolution of the City Council. A
copy of current service connection fees for various meter sizes will be on file
in the Water Superintendent’s office.
      (2)   Special fee for service outside the city. Service connection and
inspection fees for properties outside the city limits shall be in accordance
with the rate schedule adopted by resolution of the City Council.
      (3)   Impact fees and base charges. The city shall have authority to
assess the developer and/or landowner fees in addition to the aforementioned
fees. These additional fees are termed impact and capital improvement base fees
and are for the purpose of providing a more equitable distribution of city
water system costs relating to such items as water supply development, storage,
transmission lines and other off-site improvements and shall be in accordance
with the rate schedule approved by resolution of the City Council.
   (L)   Water and fire hydrant water line dedications. A maintenance and
operation easement shall be granted to the city for any water mains and/or
appurtenances that are intended and/or required to be dedicated to the city
that are located outside of dedicated public right-of-way and shall be granted
prior to issuance of a final certificate of occupancy. Additionally, all water
lines servicing fire hydrants, including the fire hydrants themselves, shall be
dedicated to the public for ownership, operation and maintenance. Requests for
dedication shall be received, reviewed and cleared for City Council agenda
placement prior to issuance of a final certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. 1618, passed 10-12-1982; Ord. 1940, passed 3-16-1992; Ord. 2558, passed
10-17-2005; Ord. 2831, passed 5-17-2010)
§ 04-01-11 RESTRICTIONS ON WATER USE.
   No person supplied with water from the city water mains will be entitled to
use it for any other purpose than stated in his or her permit, nor shall water
be supplied to other households or businesses, or allowed to be taken off the
premises with the intent of bypassing a service connection.
(Ord. 1618, passed 10-12-1982)
§ 04-01-13 UPKEEP OF SERVICE PIPES AND FIXTURES.
   All service pipes and fixtures on private property are the responsibility of
the property owner and shall be kept in good repair and protected from freezing
at the property owner’s expense. The property owner shall be responsible for
all damages resulting from leaks or breaks in service pipes and fixtures. Water
will not be furnished to a water service where there is a leak in the service
piping or in a fixture, and when a leak is discovered, the water service may be
discontinued immediately. If water service has been discontinued and there is a
leak, it shall not be turned on until all leaks have been repaired.
(Ord. 1940, passed 3-16-1992)
§ 04-01-15 WATER USER CHARGES AND FEES.
   (A)   The water user charges and fees shall be established to cover
operation and maintenance costs of the city water system, and to provide a fund
to pay for capital improvement costs, additions, participation in oversized
extensions to the system, or redemption of bonds that have been used to finance
system improvements, all as a part of the city’s responsibility to provide
adequate domestic water service and facilities for the city. For new
connections, the water user charge is to begin when the meter is turned on.
   (B)   Charges for shut-off and turn on of customer accounts shall be in
accordance with the rate schedule adopted by resolution of the City Council.
   (C)   All owners who derive benefit from the city’s water system shall, in
return for said benefit, pay user charges. Only the benefiting property owner,
or his or her duly authorized agent, may initiate water service. The procedures
for initiating service, disconnecting service, billing of accounts and
processing of delinquent accounts shall be in accordance with policies adopted
by resolution of the City Council.
   (D)   At the initiation or reconnection of service, the city may elect to
collect a security deposit to ensure the ultimate payment of charges and fees.
The procedures for collecting, the amount, the procedures for applying to
delinquent charges and fees and the final disposition of unapplied amounts of
said security deposit shall be in accordance with policies adopted by
resolution of the City Council.
   (E)   The water user charge shall be based on the amount of water used.
Fees, which may include penalties, may be for amounts independent of the amount
of water used. Water user charges and fees shall be in accordance with rates
and amounts established by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 1940, passed 3-16-1992; Ord. 2465, passed 7-21-2003)
§ 04-01-17 BILLING ACCOUNTING.
   (A)   Billing frequency. Billing cycle frequency and due dates for accounts
shall be established in the billing policy, as adopted by resolution of the
City Council.
   (B)   Water payments. Payments due the city shall be received and processed
by the Finance Director of the city, in accordance with the state code.
   (C)   Delinquent accounts. Water charges billed shall become delinquent on
the due date. Delinquent accounts shall be processed in accordance with the
billing policy adopted by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 1940, passed 3-16-1992)
§ 04-01-19 UTILITY BOARD ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby a Board established and appointed by the Mayor of the city
to hear requests for variances to established policies adopted by resolution of
the City Council, and to request billing adjustments. The Board shall inform
the customer of the right to appeal adverse decisions pursuant to city
ordinance. (See
Title 1, Chapter 5.)
(Ord. 1940, passed 3-16-1992)
§ 04-01-21 RIGHT OF CITY TO TURN OFF THE WATER SUPPLY.
   The city reserves the right at any time without notice to shut off the water
supply for repairs, extensions or any other reason, and the city shall not be
responsible for damage such as bursting of boilers supplied by direct pressure,
the breaking of any pipes or fixtures or any other damage resulting from the
shutting off of the water.
(Ord. 1618, passed 10-12-1982)
§ 04-01-23 FAILURE OF WATER SUPPLY.
   The city shall not be liable under any circumstance for a deficiency or a
failure in the supply of water whether by the shutting off of the water to make
repairs or connections or for any cause whatsoever.
(Ord. 1618, passed 10-12-1982)
§ 04-01-25 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Unlawful use of fire hydrants. It shall be unlawful for any person,
except one duly authorized by the city, to open, close, operate, turn on, turn
off, interfere with, attach any pipe or hose to or connect anything with any
fire hydrant or auxiliary valve belonging to the city. Further, it shall be
unlawful for any person to obstruct the access to any fire hydrant by placing
around or thereon any stone, brick, lumber, dirt or other material, or to
willfully or carelessly injure the hydrant.
   (B)   Malicious or willful waste of water. It shall be unlawful for any
water user to waste water or allow it to be wasted by imperfect water stops,
valves or leaky pipes that are not under the jurisdiction of the city, or to
permit the malicious or willful consumption of water, having no beneficial use.
The city, based on meter readings, will make a determination of where water has
been wasted and shall notify the user of that determination. It shall then be
the user’s responsibility to make the necessary repairs, or to institute
actions that will correct that situation within 60 days of the city’s
notification to the user. All costs incurred including the cost of wasted water
and any repairs shall be the responsibility of the user.
(Ord. 1618, passed 10-12-1982)
§ 04-01-27 TERMINATION FOR NONCOMPLIANCE.
   Service shall be terminated and restored in accordance with the billing
policy and rate schedule adopted by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 1940, passed 3-16-1992)
§ 04-01-29 SAVING CLAUSE.
   If any section, division, sentence or provision hereof or the application
thereof to any particular circumstance shall ever be invalid or unenforceable,
such holding shall not affect the remainder hereof, which shall continue in
full force and effect and be applicable to all circumstances to which it may
validly apply.
(Ord. 1618, passed 10-12-1982)
§ 04-01-31 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall
be served by the city with a written notice stating the nature of the violation
and provided a specified maximum period of time, said period not to exceed 60
days, for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the
period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (A) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on
conviction thereof, shall be subject to fine and/or imprisonment, up to, but
not exceeding, the maximum penalties set forth in Idaho Code § 50-302, as
amended. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the city
by reason of such violation.
(Ord. 1618, passed 10-12-1982; Ord. 2669, passed 2-20-2007)
CHAPTER 3: CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
Section
   
04-03-01   Definitions
   
04-03-03   New and existing service, testing and inspections
   
04-03-05   Use of backflow prevention device
   
04-03-07   Degree of hazard
   
04-03-09   Additional remedies
   
04-03-11   Violations and penalties
   
04-03-13   Severability
§ 04-03-01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT. An employee of the City Water Department representing the interest of
the city.
   APPROVED DEVICE. A backflow prevention device, of proper design, certified
by the State Division of Environment Quality.
   BACKFLOW. The process of reverse flow of any substance into the city water
system caused by back pressure or backsiphonage.
   CITY WATER SYSTEM. The source, pumping facilities, storage and transmission
and distribution system of the city for providing water for human consumption.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other any substance whereby the potential for reverse flow exists.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the Water Department or his or her
authorized representative.
(Ord. 1801, passed 2-6-1989)
§ 04-03-03 NEW AND EXISTING SERVICE, TESTING AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   City water service will not be provided to any new user of city water
until a physical inspection by the Superintendent shows no potential cross-
connections exist. Additionally, water service shall be discontinued to any
user with a potential cross-connection on his, her or their premises, until
such time as the proper prevention device is installed and tested.
   (B)   Water service shall not be provided to any new structure built until
it has been inspected for cross-connections and approved by the Superintendent.
   (C)   Periodic inspections shall be made by the agent on all buildings where
the possibility of cross-connections may occur.
(Ord. 1801, passed 2-6-1989)
§ 04-03-05 USE OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE.
   When deemed necessary by the Superintendent, an approved device shall be
purchased and installed at the user’s expense on the owner’s property. An
annual operational test shall be conducted by the agent, or other certified
backflow device tester, to ensure the effectiveness of the device. A backflow
device shall be installed whenever materials stored or processed by the user
would present a hazard to health or impair the quality of water provided by the
city water system. Activities requiring a backflow device include, but are not
limited to, the following:
   (A)   Premises having an auxiliary water supply;
   (B)   Premises with intricate plumbing systems which make it difficult to
determine if a cross-connection exists;
   (C)   Premises with entry restrictions making inspection for cross-
connections impractical;
   (D)   Premises with known cross-connections or a history of cross-
connections;
   (E)   Any location where process or cooling substances are pressurized;
   (F)   Premises where hazardous or toxic material are handled and the
possibility of backsiphonage exists; and
   (G)   Backflow prevention devices shall be installed on the following
facilities for the protection of the city water system:
      (1)   Hospitals, clinics and mortuaries;
      (2)   Laboratories;
      (3)   Metal plating industries;
      (4)   Sewage treatment facilities;
      (5)   Food or beverage processing plants;
      (6)   Chemical/industrial plants using a water process;
      (7)   Petroleum storage facilities;
      (8)   Chemical storage or distribution facilities;
      (9)   Tank truck fill stations;
      (10)   Car washes; and
      (11)   Any site specified by the Superintendent or the state as
endangering the quality of the city water system.
(Ord. 1801, passed 2-6-1989)
§ 04-03-07 DEGREE OF HAZARD.
   Minimum backflow protection required shall conform to the following
requirements:
   (A)   An air gap separation or reduced pressure principle device is required
for hazardous or toxic applications;
   (B)   A double check valve assembly shall be installed when an objectionable
but not hazardous substance could come into contact with the city water system;
   (C)   For lawn sprinkler applications, an atmospheric vacuum breaker can be
installed, provided no shut-off valves are installed downstream from the
device; or
   (D)   A pressure vacuum breaker shall be installed when shut-off valves are
located downstream.
(Ord. 1801, passed 2-6-1989)
§ 04-03-09 ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.
   In the event a cross-connection is discovered and not corrected within 90
days, or when inspection access is refused, water service shall be terminated
until such time as the deficiency is corrected. In addition, the agent may have
the appropriate protective device installed, at the owner’s expense, and resume
water service only when all costs have been recouped.
(Ord. 1801, passed 2-6-1989)
§ 04-03-11 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   Any person who is found to be guilty of violating any portion of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1801, passed 2-6-1989)
§ 04-03-13 SEVERABILITY.
   If any one or more sections or divisions this chapter are for any reason
held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this chapter, and the same shall remain
in full force and effect.
(Ord. 1801, passed 2-6-1989)
CHAPTER 5: SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
Section
   
04-05-01   Short title
   
04-05-02   Department created
   
04-05-03   Powers and responsibilities of Department
   
04-05-04   Additional powers
   
04-05-05   Definitions
   
04-05-06   Applicability of chapter
   
04-05-07   Connection to city owned treatment works/POTW; construction
standards
   
04-05-08   Major contributing industry
   
04-05-09   Fees, charges and billing accounts
   
04-05-10   Prohibited acts
   
04-05-11   Severability
   
04-05-12   Effective date
§ 04-05-01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Sewer Treatment Department, Standards and
Service Ordinance.
(Ord. 2064, passed 1-17-1995)
§ 04-05-02 DEPARTMENT CREATED.
   There is hereby created the “City Owned Treatment Works/POTW Department”
which Department shall be under the supervision of the City Engineer/Public
Works Director with the operation of the City Owned Treatment Works/POTW under
the direction of the Treatment Plant Superintendent, which Superintendent shall
be, upon recommendation of the City Engineer/Public Works Director, appointed
by the Mayor and City Council, either as an employee or by an independent
contract.
(Ord. 2064, passed 1-17-1995)
§ 04-05-03 POWERS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF DEPARTMENT.
   The city owned treatment works/POTW Department shall have the following
powers, duties and responsibilities:
   (A)   To recommend and carry out the city’s responsibility providing for the
repair, rebuilding, connection to and acceptance of its city owned treatment
works/POTW, which includes all aspects of a sewerage system, as defined by
Idaho Code § 50-1029, including the acquiring, constructing, reconstructing,
improving, bettering or extending said works, its management of such works in
the most efficient manner, consisting of sound economy and public advantage to
the end that the service or that the system and the service for which it
provides shall be at the lowest possible cost in conformance with state and
federal law and requirements, all in the promotion of the welfare and
improvement of the health, safety, comfort and convenience of the inhabitants
of the city;
   (B)   To exercise the authority of the city to operate and maintain such
works within and without the boundaries of the city or partially within or
without the boundaries of the city or within any part of the city as especially
authorized; and
   (C)   To prescribe and collect rates, fees, tolls or charges, including levy
of assessment for such rates, fees, tolls or charges against all users,
including governmental units, departments or agencies, including the state and
its subdivisions for the services and facilities furnished by such works or by
the rehabilitation thereof and to provide methods for collection and penalties,
including the denial of service for nonpayment of such rates, fees, tolls or
charges, to the end that the same may be and always remain self-supporting.
(Ord. 2064, passed 1-17-1995)
§ 04-05-04 ADDITIONAL POWERS.
   (A)   Powers and authority of city authorized representative. The
Department, through its authorized representatives, shall be permitted at
proper and reasonable hours of the day to enter all properties, premises or
buildings which are connected to the POTW for testing or for any other purpose
necessary for the proper administration of the sanitary sewer system/POTW in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, regardless of the presence or
lack thereof of any easements. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said
properties, premises or buildings shall be done in a workmanlike manner. Also,
the city, through its authorized representative bearing proper credentials and
identification, shall be permitted to enter all private properties through
which the city holds an easement for the purpose of, but not limited to,
inspection, observation, repair, maintenance and replacement of any
appurtenances of the city sanitary sewer system lying within said easements.
All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement shall be done in a
workmanlike manner.
   (B)   Rules and regulations. The City Engineer/Public Works Director may
make or prescribe such rules and regulations deemed advisable to implement this
chapter. Such rules are to be in force after approval of the Mayor and City
Council by resolution. Said rules and regulations may cover all aspects of
construction standards, sewer service charge adjustments, charges for sewer
connection, classification of service, exemption from payment for sewer
service, payment for service where building is not connected to the city owned
waterworks.
(Ord. 2064, passed 1-17-1995; Ord. 2831, passed 5-17-2010)
§ 04-05-05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Generally. For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ADJACENT CITY SEWER. Sewer services are available if the public sewer is
located in an easement or public right-of-way on or adjacent to the property on
which any building is located and can be reached by a gravity building sewer of
not more than 200 feet in length constructed in accordance with requirements of
the plumbing code (See
Title 12, Chapter 5 of this code).
      BUILDING SEWER. The sewer line which connects the plumbing of a
residence, building or structure to the city sewer.
      EASEMENT. Easements established by dedication or usage.
      SEWER CONNECTION. The physical connection of the building sewer with the
city owned treatment works/POTW.
   (B)   Sewer use and management ordinance. For purposes of this chapter, the
definitions as set forth in the “sewer use and management ordinance,” and as
hereinafter amended, presently codified at
Title 4, Chapter 7 of this code, are hereby incorporated herein by this
reference as if set forth in full and are hereby made fully applicable to this
chapter.
(Ord. 2064, passed 1-17-1995)
§ 04-05-06 APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall apply to all property within the corporate limits of the
city and any lot, parcel, premises or building outside of the corporate limits
of the city that is connected to the city owned treatment works/POTW.
(Ord. 2064, passed 1-17-1995)
§ 04-05-07 CONNECTION TO CITY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS/POTW; CONSTRUCTION
STANDARDS.
   (A)   Sewer connection required and penalty.
      (1)   (a)   Every building or structure, including each individual
airport hangar unit even if all airport hangars are contained within the same
building, within the corporate limits of the city shall be separately and
independently connected by a separate building sewer to the POTW where a POTW
sewer line is adjacent to the lot, tract or parcel of land on which the
building or structure stands. Individual service requirements for condominium
projects shall be as per §
11-04-05.
         (b)   No more than one building may be connected to a single service
unless approved by the City Engineer/Public Works Director which approval shall
be an exception not a rule and only based upon overwhelming evidence that such
a connection is the only practical method by which the buildings can be
connected to the POTW and the ownership of the combined service is clearly
designated and all parties are jointly responsible for the maintenance and
operation of the connection, that appropriate easements exist establishing the
right of all buildings to be connected and to use that connection the allowance
of the connection will not impede the city’s ability to collect fees for the
services and does not impede the city’s ability to apply all applicable
ordinances and resolutions regarding the providing of the service and the
establishment of the connection and its maintenance. The City Engineer/Public
Works Director may also deny an application when the capacity of the city’s
POTW might be impaired or there are slope and/or other design issues based upon
reasonable engineering standards and practices regarding such installation as
it pertains to maintenance materials used, diameter of the line, the providing
of cleanouts and the relationship of the buildings to the POTW.
      (2)   No permit shall be issued for the construction of any building or
structure in the city on any lot, tract or parcel of land unless the plans and
specifications show connection to the POTW where a POTW sewer line is adjacent
to the lot, tract or parcel of land on which the building or structure stands.
      (3)   Every building or structure in existence prior to the construction
of a city sewer adjacent to the lot, tract or parcel of land on which the
building or structure stands shall, upon the construction of an adjacent city
sewer, be connected to the city sewer not later than 12 months from the time
the city sewer is certified and accepted, by the City Engineer/Public Works
Director, as being completed and ready to use. The City Council may, based upon
a justified appeal from the owner of the building or structure, extend the time
for connecting to the city sewer. The following may be considered justified
appeals:
         (a)   A claim of financial hardship is presented by the applicant.
Council may allow a time extension to connect of up to 12 months;
         (b)   A point of access into the sewer less than 12 feet deep (as
measured from the invert of the main or service line) is not available. Council
may allow a time extension to connect until such time that a point of access
less than 12 feet deep is available; and
         (c)   A building has a functional site disposal system constructed or
refurbished within the last five years but prior to the time in which sewer
service was available. Council may, upon presentation of satisfactory evidence
as to date of construction by the applicant, allow a time extension to connect
until such time as the constructed or refurbished site disposal system is five
years old.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful to occupy or use any building or structure
that is in violation of this chapter and any violation shall be punishable as a
misdemeanor, and in the circumstance of a continued or immediate health risk,
the city may seek injunctive relief in a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   Standard specification for POTW sewer line connection/permit and
inspection required.
      (1)   The City Engineer/Public Works Director shall duly promulgate
standard specifications for the POTW sewer connection entitled and published as
“Standards and Specifications for City of Caldwell POTW Sewer Connection” which
standards and specifications shall be submitted for approval by the Council and
which copies shall be on file at all times with the Building Inspector and the
City Engineer/Public Works Director.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, joint venture, trust,
partnership, limited liability company, association or corporation to do, or
cause or permit to be done, whether acting as principal, agent or employee
thereof, any of the following: to uncover, make any connection with, open into,
use, alter and/or disturb any POTW sewer line or other appurtenance thereof,
without first procuring a permit from the City Engineering Department
authorizing such work to be done.
      (3)   Any person, firm, joint venture, partnership, limited liability
company, association or corporation entitled to receive a permit pursuant to
the plumbing regulations of this municipal code of the city shall make
application to the City Engineering Department on the form provided. A
description of the work proposed to be done, its location, ownership, occupancy
and use of the premises shall be given. The City Engineer/Public Works Director
may require plans and specifications and such other information as may be
deemed necessary and pertinent before granting a permit. When it has been
determined that the information furnished by the applicant is in compliance
with this section, the permit shall be issued upon payment of the fees as
hereinafter fixed.
      (4)   Before any permit shall issue, the applicant shall pay to the city
at the time of application, a permit fee for each permit issued which shall
include the costs of inspection and which fee schedule shall be proposed by the
City Engineer/Public Works Director and approved by resolution of the City
Council, and which fee schedule shall not exceed the expense of processing the
permit and performing the inspection.
      (5)   At the time of the issuance of the permit, the Engineering
Department shall notify the applicant at what stage of work the Engineering
Department shall make the inspection. The applicant shall notify the
Engineering Department at said time to make the inspection.
      (6)   All uncovering of connections with openings of, use of, alterations
to or disturbances of the POTW shall be inspected by an agent of the City
Engineering Department to ensure the integrity of the POTW and/or its
appurtenances.
      (7)   It shall be the duty of the permit holder to notify the Engineering
Department at least 24 hours prior to the time of the inspection, exclusive of
Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, that the permittee will be ready for
inspection at a stipulated time. When reinspection is required after the final
inspection because of failure to meet requirements of this section, it shall be
made at a flat charge to be approved by the City Council by resolution not to
exceed the cost of doing the reinspection.
      (8)   Any person, firm, joint venture, trust, partnership, limited
liability company, association or corporation by and through a member,
representative or agent, who shall violate any of the provisions hereof shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to fine and/or imprisonment, up
to, but not exceeding, the maximum penalties set forth in Idaho Code § 50-302,
as amended.
   (C)   No sewer connections outside city without permit. There shall be no
private sewer lines outside the city connected to the POTW except by permit
issued in accordance with this section.
      (1)   An application for a permit for a private sewer line outside the
city shall be made to the City Clerk who shall forward the same to the City
Engineer/Public Works Director.
      (2)   The City Engineer/Public Works Director shall conduct such inquiry
and obtain such information from the applicant as is necessary to report to the
City Council as to whether or not the permit can be granted and whether or not
the applicant and the parcel to be served qualifies with the criteria under
division (B) above.
      (3)   No permit shall be granted unless the party requesting the
connection complies with the following.
         (a)   If the parcel of real property is legally capable of being
annexed, the applicant must formally request annexation.
         (b)   If the parcel of real property is not legally capable of being
annexed, the applicant must consent and request annexation by a binding
agreement which shall run with the land to which it appertains so that the same
shall operate as a written request for annexation when the property can be
legally annexed.
         (c)   Applicant must consent to be bound and have the real property
bound by agreement to all of the regulations and ordinances of the city
established or thereafter established which govern the operation, maintenance
or expansion of the system, including all provisions related to limitations of
discharge, fees, surcharges, penalties and liabilities to the same extent as if
the parcel were within the corporate boundaries of the city and which agreement
shall be recorded and shall run with the land so long as the connection to the
city’s POTW exists.
         (d)   No connection outside of the city shall be permitted if the
city’s POTW is not meeting the provisions of its (NPDES) discharge permit or if
the waste load of the parcel desiring connection would jeopardize the POTW’s
ability to meet the permit conditions thereof.
         (e)   No parcel shall be permitted to connect to the city’s sanitary
sewer system in the event it would require the city to construct a sewer line
at the expense of the city’s POTW, and all expenses related to the construction
and obtaining of right-of-way shall be borne by the applicant and shall be
constructed in accordance with the specifications and terms and conditions set
forth by the City Engineer/Public Works Director in accordance with the
established specifications and development standards of the city.
         (f)   No parcel shall be connected to the city’s POTW in the event
that such a connection would compromise the ability of the city’s POTW to
provide service to its existing users within the boundaries of the city.
      (4)   The City Engineer/Public Works Director shall submit a report to
the City Council concerning the application with the City Engineer/Public Works
Director’s recommendations to the Council as to whether or not the application
for permit should be granted in accordance with the criteria set forth in
division (C)(3) above.
      (5)   The City Council shall determine whether or not to grant the permit
and may impose such reasonable conditions upon the granting of the permit to
ensure that permit’s compliance with the provisions of division (C)(3) above.
      (6)   Action by the City Council on the application for permit shall be
considered a final action for the city.
   (D)   Construction of sewers by private persons.
      (1)   Sewer construction permit required. Any private person or entity
desiring to construct a sewer main, interceptor or trunk or any other extension
of the POTW shall first obtain from the city a permit for such construction
upon application being filed with and approved by the Public Works Director.
The application shall provide and include engineered and certified plans of the
proposed sewer, the name of the person or entity applying and the location of
the proposed sewer. The design and construction shall be consistent with
relevant sewer master plans and with applicable and/or adopted policies and
standards. The legal description or map of the land or lots to be served by the
sewer, and the approximate cost shall also be provided if cost recovery from
benefiting properties is intended.
      (2)   Certificate of completion. Upon completion, the person constructing
the sewer must file a certificate of completion with the Public Works Director
setting forth the as-built plans of the sewer and certification by the design
engineer of record that construction was completed in conformance with approved
plans and standards. The city shall not accept the operation and maintenance of
said line or facility until it has accepted the same in accordance with a duly
adopted policy regarding dedication of privately constructed facilities.
      (3)   Affidavit of owners participating in cost. If cost recovery from
benefiting properties is intended, the person or entity constructing the sewer
must file with the Public Works Director an affidavit stating the legal
description or map of the lots and the owners thereof who have participated in
the cost of the construction of the sewer and the amount of their
participation.
      (4)   Owners not participating in cost. The person or entity constructing
the sewer may recover the cost of designing and constructing the sewer from
benefited property owners not participating in the cost by entering into an
agreement with the city for the city to collect a proportionate share of the
costs from any such owner connecting subsequent to the date of the agreement
and at the time connection is made. Any agreement must comply with terms
outlined in this section and be approved by City Council. Any fees so collected
shall be accounted for separately, shall be in addition to other approved
connection fees of City Council and to fees outlined in other cost recovery
agreements, and shall be reimbursed at the times as dictated in the agreement.
      (5)   Evidence of expenditures. Any person or entity desiring to recover
costs for the construction of a sewer facility must provide verifiable
evidence, to the satisfaction of the Public Works Director, that the costs were
incurred and paid. The recovery of costs is limited to the total of the
verifiable costs less amounts reimbursed by owners participating in the costs
of construction, as approved by the Public Works Director at the time of the
agreement, and included therein.
      (6)   Sewer already constructed. All persons or entities having
heretofore constructed sewers may file with the Public Works Director a
certificate of completion as provided herein and may enter into an agreement
with the city for recovery of costs under the terms outlined herein. The
provisions of this code for connection of service by owners not participating
in the cost of construction shall thereafter be effective on those sewers
already constructed.
      (7)   Sewer extension. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to
prevent the city, or a person or entity approved by the city, from extending
any sewer main, interceptor or trunk line, or increasing the capacity of any
facility.
      (8)   Time limit for cost recovery. In the recovery of costs of
constructing sewer extensions by private persons, the term of any agreement
shall be limited to a maximum of seven years from the date of completion of
construction of the sewer. The term of any subsequent renewal shall also be
limited to a maximum of seven years. The recovery of costs of constructing
sewer extensions by private persons, by the original agreement and any renewals
to said cost recovery agreement, is limited to 21 years from the date of
completion of construction of the sewer.
      (9)   Other systems. The method of cost recovery described herein may be
applied to drinking water at the discretion of City Council.
(Ord. 2064, passed 1-17-1995; Ord. 2669, passed 2-20-2007; Ord. 2720, passed
12-17-2007; Ord. 2831, passed 5-17-2010)
§ 04-05-08 MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY.
   There is hereby established a category of property owner or sewer user which
shall be known as a significant industrial user which will be subject to
certain regulations and pretreatment responsibilities as indicated in the sewer
use and management ordinance of this code (see
Chapter 7 of this title).
(Ord. 2064, passed 1-17-1995)
§ 04-05-09 FEES, CHARGES AND BILLING ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Special fees. The city shall have the right to establish special sewer
fees within an identified boundary in the city where POTW sewer facilities have
been constructed or are being maintained that constitute an additional burden
on the city not necessitated by the rest of the city but which specifically
benefit those properties within the identified area. Such fees may include, but
are not limited to, construction of sewer interceptor lines, maintenance of
sewer interceptor lines, the construction of sewage pump stations, maintenance
of sewage pump stations or other facilities that are necessary to provide sewer
service within the identified area.
   (B)   Surcharge. The City Engineer/Public Works Director is hereby
authorized to levy a surcharge on all users of the POTW, in addition to the
rates provided in this chapter, for the purpose of maintenance, operation,
repairs, reconstruction, replacement, extension or expansion of the POTW. Said
surcharge shall be established by rule and regulation promulgated by the City
Engineer/Public Works Director and shall be effective from and after approval
by the City Council.
   (C)   Sewer user charges and fees.
      (1)   The sewer user charge is established for the purpose of equitably
imposing upon all users the costs and expenses of operation, maintenance,
repair and replacement of the POTW. For new connections, the sewer user charge
is to begin when the connection is completed. All owners who derive benefit
from the POTW shall, in return for said benefit, pay user charges. Only the
benefiting property owner, or his or her duly authorized agent, may initiate
service. The procedures for initiating service, disconnecting service, billing
of accounts and processing of delinquent accounts shall be in accordance with
policies adopted by resolution of the City Council. The user charge shall be
based on: the volume and content of effluent discharged into the POTW of the
city; and the costs and expenses of operation, maintenance, repair and
replacement of the POTW, such charges having been determined to be the benefit
derived by each building structure or user being charged.
      (2)   The sewer user charge will be established for each category of use
based on the following classifications.
Waste Strength Category Waste Strength BOD or TSS
                        Milligrams/Liter
Waste Strength Category Waste Strength BOD or TSS
                        Milligrams/Liter
I                       0 - 200
II                      200 - 400
III                     400 - 600
IV                      600 - 800
V                       800 - 1,000
VI                      1,000 - 1,500
VII                     in excess of 1,500
 
      (3)   The user charges and service fees shall be established by the City
Council by resolution duly adopted at a regular Council meeting.
      (4)   The user charges and service fees shall be reviewed annually by the
Treatment Plant Superintendent and the City Engineer/Public Works Director and
revised periodically as required, and the charges and fees provided by this
chapter are hereby levied and assessed against each lot, parcel or tract of
land, or each building, structure or other property having any connection with
the POTW or otherwise discharging sanitary sewage and/or wastewater directly or
indirectly into the POTW.
      (5)   Upon recommendation of the City Engineer/Public Works Director,
billing cycle frequency and due dates for accounts shall be established in the
billing policy, as adopted by resolution of the City Council.
      (6)   Residential user charges shall be based on average water usage
during the three-month consumption period from January through March and shall
be adjusted annually to reflect current use. Properties with three or fewer
dwelling units shall be classified residential.
      (7)   User connections to the POTW not classified as residential shall be
billed based on the actual water metered during the consumption period, unless
approved otherwise by resolution of the City Council.
      (8)   All residential and nonresidential users outside the city limits
shall be billed based on the actual water metered during the consumption period
at two times the user charges for sewer users inside the city limits, unless
approved otherwise by resolution of City Council.
      (9)   The City Engineer/Public Works Director may require users to
install an approved and accessible water meter on private water supplies
discharging into the POTW for determining usage. Installation shall be at the
expense of the property owner. Failure to install a water meter within 60 days
after written notice by the City Engineer/Public Works Director will result in
termination of sewer service at the expense of the property owners.
      (10)   At the initiation or reconnection of service, the city may elect
to collect a security deposit to ensure the ultimate payment of charges and
fees. The procedures for collecting, the amount, the procedures for applying to
delinquent charges and fees and the final disposition of unapplied amounts of
said security deposit shall be in accordance with policies adopted by
resolution of the City Council.
   (D)   Billing accounts.
      (1)   Sewer payments. Payments due the city shall be received and
processed by the Finance Director of the city, in accordance with the state
code.
      (2)   Delinquent accounts. Sewer charges billed shall become delinquent
on the due date. Delinquent accounts shall be processed in accordance with the
billing policy adopted by resolution of the City Council.
      (3)   Service termination. Service shall be terminated and restored in
accordance with the billing policy and rate schedule adopted by resolution of
the City Council.
(Ord. 2064, passed 1-17-1995; Ord. 2465, passed 7-21-2003)
§ 04-05-10 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Improper use of system.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to connect any open gutter, cesspool or privy
vault with any portion of the POTW.
      (2)   No property owner or user shall be allowed or permitted to
discharge sewage into the POTW which shall be deemed deleterious to such system
or which shall endanger the employees, operation or treatment processes of
sewage disposal, or which shall cause encrustation, or shall chemically or
physically attack so as to corrode or erode the sewer lines, treatment
facilities or any other portion of the POTW.
      (3)   Every property owner or user shall be responsible to prevent and
abate any discharge from or upon such owner’s or user’s property into the POTW
which shall be deleterious to the system. The city may send notice of any such
deleterious discharge to the property owner or user by certified or registered
mail. If the property owner or user does not thereafter correct such
deleterious discharge to prevent said discharge within a time specified by the
city, the city or its authorized agents may enter upon the owner’s or user’s
property and make such repairs or do such work as is reasonably necessary to
prevent such deleterious discharge. The property owner or user shall be
responsible for the cost of such work and repairs. If such costs are not paid
by the property owner within 30 days, the costs may be added to and collected
as part of the property owner’s sewer user billing account.
      (4)   Any property owner or user violating the provisions of this section
shall, upon notice by the City Engineer/Public Works Director, immediately
install such preliminary treatment through separators, traps and/or chemical,
physical or biochemical processes as will make and assure that the sewage
contributed from such property or premises will meet the requirements of this
chapter or applicable sections of the sewer use and management ordinance.
   (B)   Use of outside toilets and privies.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful and constitute a misdemeanor for any person to
use or permit the use of, on any premises owned, occupied or used by them, any
outside toilet or privy within the limits of the city.
      (2)   The use of any outside toilet or privy within the limits of the
city is hereby declared to be against public health and to constitute a public
nuisance.
      (3)   Each day this chapter is violated by any person shall constitute a
separate offense.
      (4)   The Building Official may, however, grant permits for the temporary
use of temporary outside toilets, and the operation and use of said toilets
pursuant to said permit shall not be unlawful.
   (C)   Unlawful to discharge unpolluted water to any POTW.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be
discharged any stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters
into the POTW.
      (2)   Any person found to be violating any of these provisions shall be
served with a written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing
a reasonable time limit for satisfactory correction thereof. The offender
shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all
violations.
      (3)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (C)(2) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2064, passed 1-17-1995; Ord. 2889, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 04-05-11 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any section, clause, sentence or provision of this chapter be held
invalid for any reason, such holding or decree shall not be construed as
affecting the validity of any of the remaining portions hereof, it being
declared that the City Council would have adopted the remainder of this
chapter, notwithstanding the invalidity of any such section, clause, sentence
or provision.
(Ord. 2064, passed 1-17-1995)
§ 04-05-12 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after the passage,
approval and publication according to law of the ordinance codified herein.
(Ord. 2064, passed 1-17-1995)
CHAPTER 7: SEWER USE AND MANAGEMENT
Section
   
04-07-01   Short title
   
04-07-03   General provisions
   
04-07-05   Definitions
   
04-07-07   Regulations
   
04-07-09   Wastewater discharge permit/special agreement permit/monitoring,
inspection and surveyance charges and fees
   
04-07-11   POTW use and management plan; promulgation
   
04-07-13   Enforcement response plan; promulgation
   
04-07-15   Wastewater discharge permit requirements
   
04-07-17   Reporting requirements
   
04-07-19   Analytical requirements
   
04-07-21   Compliance monitoring
   
04-07-23   Confidential information
   
04-07-25   Enforcement response
   
04-07-27   Publication of users in significant noncompliance
   
04-07-29   Administrative enforcement remedies
   
04-07-31   Board of Appeals
   
04-07-33   Judicial enforcement remedies
   
04-07-35   Supplemental enforcement action
   
04-07-37   Affirmative defenses to discharge violations
   
04-07-39   Miscellaneous provisions
   
04-07-41   Effective date
§ 04-07-01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Sewer Use and Management Ordinance.
(Ord. 3364, passed 8-16-2021)
§ 04-07-03 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose and intent of this chapter is to
establish uniform requirements governing dischargers into the POTW which enable
the city to protect public health in conformity with all applicable city, state
and federal laws relating thereto which:
      (1)   Prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW which would
interfere with the normal operation of the POTW and/or would not receive
adequate treatment or would pass through the system into the receiving waters
or atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with the system;
      (2)   Improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewater and
sludge from the system;
      (3)   Ensure that the quality of the wastewater treatment plant sludge is
maintained at a level which allows its use and disposal in compliance with
applicable law; and
      (4)   Protect the health of the persons working with the POTW.
   (B)   Applicability. This chapter shall apply to any user of the POTW. This
chapter authorizes the issuance of wastewater discharge permits; monitoring,
compliance and enforcement activities; establishes administrative review
procedures; requires user reporting; and provides for the setting of fees for
the equitable distribution of costs for administering the programs established
herein, and for the issuance of wastewater discharge permits and special
agreements.
   (C)   Legal authority. This chapter is established pursuant to 40 C.F.R. §
403.8(f)(1) and the laws of the United States of America and the state; further
pursuant to that authority vested in the City Council by the laws of the state
and vests authority to execute the laws and provisions herein in the Public
Works Director and others so named and designated herein.
(Ord. 1997, passed 9-7-1993; Ord. 3364, passed 8-16-2021)
§ 04-07-05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Words and phrases. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning. Other definitions are as set forth in 40 C.F.R. §§ 403.3 et
seq.
      ACT or CWA. The Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.), as amended.
      APPLICABLE AGREEMENT STANDARDS or PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. For any
specified pollutant, “Caldwell Prohibitive Discharge Standards,” “Caldwell
Local Limits for Specific Pollutants,” “State Pretreatment Standards” or
“National Categorical Pretreatment Standards,” whichever standard is most
stringent.
      APPROVAL AUTHORITY. State Department of Environmental Quality by and
through the State Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Program.
      AUTHORITY, CONTROL AUTHORITY. The City of Caldwell, Idaho, through the
City Council.
      AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USE.
         (a)   If the user is a corporation:
            1.   The president, secretary, treasurer or a vice president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
            2.   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production or
operation facilities provided the manager is authorized to make management
decisions which govern the operation of the regulated facility, including
having the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations, and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure
long-term environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations can
ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather
complete and accurate information for control mechanism requirements; and where
authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in
accordance with corporate procedures.
         (b)   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship: a general
partner or proprietor, respectively;
         (c)   If the user is a federal, state or local governmental facility:
a director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or his or her
designate; and
         (d)   The individuals described in divisions (a) through (c) of this
definition may designate another authorized representative if the authorization
is in writing, the authorization specifies the individual or position
responsible for the overall operation of the facility from which the discharge
originates or having overall responsibility for environmental matters for the
company, and the written authorization is submitted to the city.
      BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). The schedules of activities,
prohibitions of practices, maintenance procedures and other management
practices to implement the general and specific prohibitions listed in §
04-07-07(A) and (B). BMPs also include treatment requirements, operating
procedures and practices to control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks,
sludge or waste disposal, or drainage from raw materials storage. BMPs also
include alternative means (i.e., management plans) of complying with, or in
place of certain established categorical pretreatment standards and effluent
limits.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five days at 20°C, usually expressed as a concentration (milligrams per
liter (mg/l)).
      CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Any regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the U.S. EPA in accordance
with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317) which apply to a specific
category of users and which appear in 40 C.F.R. chapter I, subchapter N, parts
405-471.
      CATEGORICAL USER. An industrial user that uses a production process that
generates a liquid waste stream regulated under the National Categorical
Pretreatment Standards.
      C.F.R. The Code of Federal Regulations which contains a codification of
documents of general applicability and future effect, published by the office
of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, as a
special edition of the Federal Register.
      CITY. The City of Caldwell, Idaho, the City Council or a designated agent
of the city.
      CITY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS or POTW. Includes any treatment works, as
defined by § 212 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292-2(A) and (B)), which is owned and/or operated
by the city. This definition includes any devices and systems owned and/or
operated by the city used in the storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation
of sewage, of indirect discharge or discharge, and/or of industrial wastes of a
liquid nature. It also includes sewers, pipes and other conveyances only if
they convey wastewater to the city treatment plant.
      COLOR. The optical density at the visual wave length of maximum
absorption, relative to distilled water. One hundred percent transmittance is
equivalent to zero optical density.
      COMMERCIAL USER. Any industry or business that discharges less than
25,000 gallons per day of process wastewater and in the opinion of the city
does not have the potential to impact the POTW. COMMERCIAL USERS are typically
restaurants, car washes, automotive repair shops, apartments, retail businesses
and the like.
      COMPOSITE SAMPLE. The sample resulting from the combination of individual
wastewater samples taken at selected intervals based on an increment of either
flow or time.
      CONTROL AUTHORITY. The City of Caldwell, Idaho, through the City Council.
      COOLING WATER/NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling which
does not come into direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product,
waste product or finished product. COOLING WATER may be generated from any use,
such as air conditioning, heat exchangers, cooling or refrigeration to which
the only pollutant added is heat.
      DAILY MAXIMUM. The arithmetic average of all effluent samples for a
pollutant collected during a calendar day.
      DAILY MAXIMUM LIMIT. The maximum allowable discharge limit of pollutant
during a calendar day. Where DAILY MAXIMUM LIMITS are expressed in terms of
concentration, the daily discharge is the arithmetic average measurement of the
pollutant concentration derived from all measurements taken that day.
      DAY. As applied to discharge limits, such as, but not limited to, maximum
daily, average daily, pounds per day or daily discharge, a DAY is interpreted
to be a contiguous 24-hour period which does not have to occur within a
calendar day.
      DOMESTIC USER (RESIDENTIAL USER). Any person who contributes, causes or
allows the contribution of wastewater into the city POTW that is of a similar
volume and/or chemical make-up as that of a residential dwelling unit.
Discharges from a residential dwelling unit typically include up to 100 gallons
per capita per day, 0.2 pounds of BOD per capita and 0.17 pounds of TSS per
capita.
      ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE PLAN. The certain plan prepared by the Public Works
Director, and adopted by the control authority (City Council) by resolution,
which plan includes provisions for the appropriate enforcement response for
user violations of the provisions of this chapter.
      ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA). The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency or, where appropriate, the Regional Water Management Division Director
or other duly authorized official of said agency.
      EXISTING SOURCE. For a categorical industrial user, an EXISTING SOURCE is
any source of discharge, the construction or operation of which commenced prior
to the publication by EPA of proposed categorical pretreatment standards, which
will be applicable to such source if the standard is thereafter promulgated in
accordance with § 307 of the Act.
      EXISTING USER. For non-categorical users, any user which is discharging
wastewater prior to the effective date of this chapter.
      GRAB SAMPLE. An individual sample collected over a period of time not
exceeding 15 minutes.
      INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The introduction of pollutants into the
POTW from any non-domestic source regulated under § 307(b), (c) or (d) of the
Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1317(c) or (d). The discharge into the POTW is normally
by means of pipes, conduits, pumping stations, force mains, constructed
drainage ditches, surface water intercepting ditches and all constructed
devices and appliances appurtenant thereto.
      INDUSTRIAL USER. See USER.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT. An authorization or equivalent
control document issued by the city to users discharging wastewater to the
POTW. The permit may contain appropriate pretreatment standards and
requirements as set forth in this chapter.
      INSTANTANEOUS LIMIT. The maximum concentration of a pollutant allowed to
be discharged at any time, determined from the analysis of any discrete or
composite sample collected, independent of the industrial flow rate and the
duration of the sampling event.
      INTERFERENCE. A discharge which alone or in conjunction with a discharge
or discharges from other sources, either:
         (a)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or
operations;
         (b)   Inhibits or disrupts its sludge processes, treatment, use or
disposal; and/or
         (c)   Is a cause of a violation of the city’s NPDES/IPDES permit or of
the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with any of the
following statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued thereunder (or more
stringent state or local regulations): § 405 of the Clean Water Act, being 33
U.S.C. § 1345; the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA), including Title II commonly
referred to as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), being 42
U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.; any state regulations contained in any state sludge
management plan prepared pursuant to subtitle D of the SWDA; the Clean Air Act,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq.; the Toxic Substances Control Act, being 15
U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq.; and the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries
Act, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 1431 et seq. and 33 U.S.C. §§ 1401 et seq.
      MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE DISCHARGE LIMIT. The maximum concentration (or loading)
of a pollutant allowed to be discharged at any time by applicable standards,
limits or permit/special agreement limits, determined from the analysis of any
grab or composited sample collected, independent of the industrial flow rate
and the duration of the sampling event.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MEDICAL WASTES. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and
blood products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes and dialysis
wastes.
      NATIONAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS or STANDARDS. Prohibited discharge
standards, categorical pretreatment standards and local limits.
      NEW SOURCE. Any building, structure, facility or installation from which
there is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which
commenced after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under § 307
(c) of the Clean Water Act which will be applicable to such sources if such
standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided
that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed
at a site at which no other source is located;
         (b)   The building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source;
         (c)   The production of wastewater generating processes of the
building structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site. In determining whether these are
substantially independent, factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source should
be considered;
         (d)   Construction on a site at which an existing source is located
results in a modification rather than a NEW SOURCE if the construction does not
create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria
of this definition but otherwise alters, replaces or adds to existing process
or production equipment; and
         (e)   Construction of a new source as defined herein has commenced if
the owner or operator has:
            1.   Begun or caused to begin as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
               a.   Any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
               b.   Significant site preparation work, including clearing
excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities which is
necessary for placement, assembly or installation of new source facilities or
equipment.
            2.   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation.
      NEW USER. A NEW USER is not a new source and is defined as a user that
applies to the city for a new building permit or any person who occupies an
existing building and plans to discharge wastewater to the city’s collection
system after the effective date of this chapter. Any person that buys an
existing facility that is discharging non-domestic wastewater will be
considered an existing user if no significant changes are made in the
manufacturing operation.
      NPDES. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit program as
administered by the U.S. EPA (note that primacy for administering this program
now belongs to the state under the State Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
(IPDES)).
      OTHER WASTES. Decayed wood, sawdust, shavings, bark, lime, refuse, ashes,
garbage, offal, oil, tar, chemicals and all other substances except sewage and
industrial wastes.
      PASSTHROUGH. The occurrence of an indirect discharge which exits the city
wastewater treatment plant into waters of the United States in quantities or
concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges
from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirements of the city
IPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation). See also INTERFERENCE.
      PERMITTEE. A person or user issued a wastewater discharge permit by the
city pursuant to this chapter.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity; or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state or local governmental
entities.
      pH. A measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a substance, expressed in
standard units (su).
      POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological
materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock,
sand, cellar dirt, agricultural and industrial wastes, and the characteristics
of the wastewater (i.e., pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, chemical
oxygen demand (COD), toxicity or odor).
      POTW/USE AND MANAGEMENT PLAN. The certain plan prepared by the Public
Works Director, and adopted by the authority (City Council) by resolution,
which plan includes provisions for present and expected use and demand of the
POTW by any user, including a domestic user, and which plan shall include
specifications for POTW management, maintenance and repair, and which
specifications may, if appropriate, provide for a plan for POTW extension and
expansion to meet expected use, and to provide the criteria for user permit and
special agreement fees, all in accordance with the city’s NPDES/IPDES permit,
and which plan shall be revised not less than every five years.
      PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination
of pollutants or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or
otherwise introducing such pollutants into the POTW. This reduction or
alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical or biological processes; by
process changes; or by other means (except by diluting the concentration of the
pollutants unless allowed by an applicable pretreatment standard).
      PRETREATMENT COORDINATOR. The person designated by the Public Works
Director and Superintendent to manage the performance of the pretreatment
program.
      PRETREATMENT PROGRAM. The city’s program for managing, permitting,
monitoring and enforcing controls and limitations on non-domestic discharges to
the POTW.
      PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENT. Any substantive or procedural requirement other
than a national pretreatment standard, imposed on an industrial user.
      PRETREATMENT STANDARDS or STANDARDS. Prohibited discharge standards,
categorical pretreatment standards and local limits.
      PRIMACY. Delegation of authority to administer the NPDES program within
the state. (See IPDES.)
      PROHIBITED DISCHARGE STANDARDS or PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Absolute
prohibitions against the discharge of certain substances; these prohibitions
appear in §
04-07-07(A) and (B).
      PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR. The person designated by the city to supervise the
operation of the Public Works Department and who is charged with certain duties
and responsibilities by this chapter, or his or her duly authorized
representative.
      PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). Treatment works, as defined by §
212 of the Act, which is owned by a state or municipality (as defined by § 502
(4) of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1362). This definition includes
any devices and systems used in the storage, treatment, recycling and
reclamation of municipal sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature. It
also includes sewers, pipes and other conveyances only if they convey
wastewater to a POTW treatment plant. The term also means the municipality as
defined in § 502(4) of the Clean Water Act, which has jurisdiction over the
indirect discharges to and the discharges from such a treatment works.
      SEPTIC HAULER. Any person or business engaged in the collection of
domestic and/or industrial wastes and discharging collected wastes to the city
wastewater treatment plant.
      SEWAGE. Human excrement and gray water (household showers, dishwashing
operations and the like).
      SEWER. Any pipe, conduit, ditch or other device used to collect and
transport sewage or stormwater from the generating source.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER.
         (a)   A user subject to categorical pretreatment standards; or
         (b)   A user that: discharges an average of 25,000 gpd or more of
process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and
boiler blowdown wastewater); contributes a process waste stream which makes up
5% or more of the average dry weather hydraulic, organic or solids capacity of
the POTW treatment plant; or is designated as such by the city on the basis
that it has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation
or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
         (c)   Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria herein provided
has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation or for
violating any applicable pretreatment standard or requirement, the city may at
any time, on its own initiative or in response to a petition received from a
user (and in accordance with procedures in 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(6)) determine
that such user should not be considered a SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER.
      SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE (SNC). An industrial user is in SIGNIFICANT
NONCOMPLIANCE if its violation(s) meet one or more of the following criteria:
         (a)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here
as those in which 66% or more of all of the measurements taken for the same
pollutant parameter during a six-month period exceed (by any magnitude) a
numeric pretreatment standard or requirement, including instantaneous limits,
as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3;
         (b)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined as those in
which 33% or more of all of the measurements taken for the same pollutant
parameter during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the
numerical pretreatment standard or requirement including instantaneous limits,
as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3 multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC equals
1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oil and grease (FOG) and 1.2 for all other pollutants
except pH);
         (c)   Any other violation of a pretreatment standard or requirement as
defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.3 (daily maximum, longer-term average, instantaneous
limit or narrative standard) that the city determines has caused, alone or in
combination with other discharges, interference or passthrough (including
endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public);
         (d)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent
endangerment to human health, welfare or to the environment or has resulted in
the POTW’s exercise of its emergency authority under §
04-07-29(G) to halt or prevent such a discharge;
         (e)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the schedule date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a local control mechanism or
enforcement order for starting construction, or attaining final compliance;
         (f)   Failure to provide, within 45 days after the due date, required
reports such as baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports,
periodic self-monitoring reports and reports on compliance with compliance
schedules;
         (g)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; and
         (h)   Any other violation or group of violations, which may include a
violation of best management practices, which the city determines will
adversely affect the operation or implementation of the city’s pretreatment
program.
      SLUG LOAD. Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration, which could
cause a violation of the prohibited discharge standards in §
04-07-07. A slug discharge is any discharge of non-routine, episodic nature,
including, but not limited to, an accidental spill or a non-customary batch
discharge, which has a reasonable potential to cause interference or
passthrough, or in any other way violate the POTW’s regulations, local limits
or permit conditions.
      STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC) CODE. A classification pursuant
to the standard industrial classification manual issued by the United States
Office of Management and Budget.
      STATE POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (IPDES). The program
established by the state to implement delegation of authority from the EPA for
administration of the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System in the
state (primacy).
      STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting from such precipitation, including snowmelt.
      SUPERINTENDENT, PLANT MANAGER. The person designated by the city to
supervise the operation of the POTW, and who is charged with certain duties and
responsibilities by this chapter, or a duly authorized representative.
      TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the
surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquid, and which is
removable by laboratory filtering.
      TOXIC POLLUTANT. One of 126 pollutants, or combination of those
pollutants, listed as toxic in regulations promulgated by EPA under § 307 (33
U.S.C. § 1317) of the Act.
      TREATMENT PLANT EFFLUENT. The discharge from the POTW into waters of the
United States.
      UPSET. An exceptional incident in which a user unintentionally and
temporarily is in a state of noncompliance with the standards set forth in §
04-07-07 due to factors beyond the reasonable control of the user, and
excluding noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly
designed treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of
preventive maintenance or careless or improper operation thereof.
      USER or INDUSTRIAL USER. Any person who discharges pollutants, toxic
pollutants and/or wastewater indirectly or directly into the POTW, but shall
not include domestic user as defined herein.
      WASTEWATER. Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
      WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or TREATMENT PLANT. The portion of the POTW
which is designed to provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial
waste.
   (B)   Abbreviations. The following abbreviations shall have the designated
meanings.
ASPP   Accidental spill prevention plan
BOD    Biological or biochemical oxygen demand
C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations
COD    Chemical oxygen demand
CWA    Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.) as amended, herein “Act”
EPA    U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
FOG    Fats, oils and grease (animal, vegetable and petroleum based oils, fats
       and greases)
GPD    gallons per day
       State Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit program under
IPDES  delegated authority from EPA to administer the NPDES program in the
       state
L      liter
LEL    Lower explosive limit
mg     milligrams
mg/l   milligrams per liter
NPDES  National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit program as
       administered by the U.S. EPA or state
O&M    Operation and maintenance
POTW   Publicly owned treatment works. Shall have the same meaning as city
       owned treatment works as defined herein
RCRA   Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
SIC    Standard industrial classifications
SIU    Significant industrial user
SWDA   Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.)
TSS    Total suspended solids
U.S.C. United States Code
 
(Ord. 3364, passed 8-16-2021)
§ 04-07-07 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   General discharge prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to be
introduced into the POTW any pollutant or wastewater which causes passthrough
or interference. These general prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW
whether or not they are subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any
other national, state or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (B)   Specific discharge prohibitions. No user shall introduce or cause to
be introduced into the POTW the following pollutants, substances or wastewater:
      (1)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed-cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
      (2)   Wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or more than 11.5, or
otherwise causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment;
      (3)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction
of the flow in the POTW resulting in interference, but in no case solids
greater than 0.5 inches in any dimension;
      (4)   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD and the
like), released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
which, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause
interference with the POTW;
      (5)   Wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F at the point of
discharge into the sewer collection system; or wastewater having a temperature
which will inhibit biological activity in the treatment plant resulting in
interference, but in no case wastewater which causes the temperature at the
introduction into the treatment plant to exceed 104°F (40°C) unless the
approval authority, upon the request of the POTW, approves alternate
temperature limits;
      (6)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral
oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or passthrough;
      (7)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      (8)   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points designated
by the city;
      (9)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life, or to prevent entry into the
sewers for maintenance or repair;
      (10)   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant’s
effluent, thereby violating the city’s NPDES/IPDES permit. Color (in
combination with turbidity) shall not cause the treatment plant effluent to
reduce the depth of the compensation point for photosynthetic activity by more
than 10% from the seasonably established norm for aquatic life;
      (11)   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except as
specifically approved by the Public Works Director, in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
      (12)   Stormwater, surface water, groundwater, artesian well water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, non-contact cooling water, except as specifically approved by the Public
Works Director by permit/special agreement and in compliance with applicable
state or federal regulations;
      (13)   Any sludges, screenings or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes or from industrial processes except as specifically approved
by the Public Works Director by permit/special agreement and in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
      (14)   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the Public
Works Director by permit/special agreement and in compliance with applicable
state or federal regulations;
      (15)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources,
the treatment plant’s effluent to fail a toxicity test;
      (16)   Detergents, surface-active agents or other substances which may
cause excessive foaming in the POTW;
      (17)   Any liquid, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
POTW or to the operation of the POTW. At no time shall two successive readings
on an explosion meter, at the point of discharge into the system (or at any
point in the system), be more than 5% nor any single reading over 10% of the
lower explosive limit (LEL) of the meter;
      (18)   Grease, animal guts or tissues, paunch manure, bones, hair, hides
or fleshings, entrails, whole blood (substantially blood, excludes incidental
and non-process blood ordinary to wastewater), feathers, ashes, cinders, sand,
spent lime, stone or marble dusts, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass
clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, wastepaper, wood, plastics,
petroleum fuel or gasoline, tar asphalt residues, used lubricating oils,
antifreeze, residues from refining or processing of fuel or lubricating oil,
mud or glass grinding or polishing wastes;
      (19)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES/IPDES
and/or other disposal system permits;
      (20)   Any wastewater, which in the opinion of the Public Works Director
can cause harm either to the sewers, sewage treatment process or equipment;
have an adverse effect on the receiving stream; or can otherwise endanger life,
limb, public property or constitute a nuisance, unless allowed by the Public
Works Director by permit/special agreement and in compliance with applicable
state or federal regulations (except that no special waiver shall be given from
categorical pretreatment standards);
      (21)   The contents of any tank or other vessel owned or used by any
person in the business of collecting or pumping sewage, effluent, septage or
other wastewater unless said person has first obtained testing and approval as
has been specifically approved by the Public Works Director by permit/special
agreement and in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations and
paid all fees assessed for the privilege of said discharge;
      (22)   Any hazardous wastes as defined in rules published by the state or
in EPA rules 40 C.F.R. part 261;
      (23)   Persistent pesticides and/or pesticides regulated by the Federal
Insecticide Fungicide Rodenticide Act (FIFRA), being 7 U.S.C. §§ 136 et seq.;
and
      (24)   Pollutants, substances or wastewater prohibited by this section
shall not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged
to the POTW except as specifically approved by the Public Works Director by
permit/special agreement and in compliance with applicable state or federal
regulations.
   (C)   Limitations on wastewater strength.
      (1)   National Categorical Pretreatment Standards. National Categorical
Pretreatment Standards specified in the 40 C.F.R. chapter I, subchapter N,
parts 405-471 are hereby incorporated as promulgated by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency pursuant to the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et
seq. shall be met by all dischargers of the regulated industrial categories.
All categorical pretreatment standards shall apply at the discharge of the
treated categorical waste stream, “end-of-process.” A user subject to a
categorical pretreatment standard must also comply with the discharge
regulations and pollutant limitations as set forth in this section except as
may be allowed by permit or special agreement (“individual limits”), provided
such allowance shall not authorize discharge of any pollutant in excess of said
permit, agreement or the applicable categorical limits or national pretreatment
standards. Special agreements must be documented as to why the local limit is
being lifted. Special agreements cannot cause the WWTP to exceed its permit
limits.
      (2)   Local limits for specific pollutants. The following pollutant
limits are established to protect against passthrough and interference. All
concentrations for metallic substances are for total metals unless indicated
otherwise. Where a user is subject to a categorical pretreatment standard and a
local limit for a given pollutant, the more stringent limit shall apply. The
Director can approve a discharge greater than the local limit, but not above
the categorical limit as long as the agreement does not cause the POTW to
violate its permit limits.
         (a)   Heavy metals and similar toxic substances. No person shall
discharge wastewater containing in excess of the following daily maximum
allowable discharge limits.
Pollutant Maximum Daily Concentration Limit Units
Pollutant       Maximum Daily Concentration Limit Units
Arsenic, total  0.02                              mg/l
Cadmium, total  0.5                               mg/l
Chromium, total 2.8                               mg/l
Copper, total   1.8                               mg/l
Cyanide, total  0.3                               mg/l
Lead, total     0.6                               mg/l
Mercury, total  0.001                             mg/l
Nickel, total   1.0                               mg/l
Silver, total   0.7                               mg/l
Zinc, total     3.5                               mg/l
 
         (b)   Conventional pollutants. The following discharges of pollutants
released in such strength or volume as to cause interference or passthrough in
the treatment process are not permitted unless approved otherwise in writing by
the Public Works Director either by permit or by special agreement in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The following are maximum daily
limits.
 
Pollutant                                 Permit Required Units
Fat, oil and grease (FOG)                 100             mg/l
Five-day biochemical oxygen demand (BOD5) 400             mg/l
Total suspended solids (TSS)              400             mg/l
 
      (3)   Limits applied at end-of-pipe. The above limits apply at the point
where the wastewater is discharged to the POTW (end-of-pipe).
   (D)   Best management practices. The Superintendent may develop and enforce
best management practices (BMPs), by ordinance or in individual wastewater
discharge permits, to implement local limits and the requirements of general
discharge prohibitions and specific discharge prohibitions in divisions (A) and
(B) above.
   (E)   Flow. No person shall discharge wastewater into the POTW at a flow
rate and/or pollutant discharge rate which is excessive over a relatively short
time period which causes a treatment process upset and subsequent loss of
treatment efficiency.
   (F)   Dilution. No user shall, unless specifically authorized by the Public
Works Director, increase the use of potable or process water in any way, nor
mix separate waste streams for the purpose of diluting a discharge as a partial
or complete substitute for adequate treatment to achieve compliance with the
standards set forth in this chapter.
   (G)   Special agreement. The city reserves the right to enter into special
agreements with a user setting out special terms under which it may discharge
to the POTW. In no case will a special agreement waive compliance with a
categorical pretreatment standard or federal pretreatment requirement. However,
the user may request a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.15. They may also request a variance from the
categorical pretreatment standard from the approval authority. Such a request
will be approved only if the user can prove that factors relating to its
discharge are fundamentally different from the factors considered by EPA when
establishing that categorical pretreatment standard. A user requesting a
fundamentally different factor variance must comply with the procedural and
substantive provisions in 40 C.F.R. § 403.13.
   (H)   Pretreatment facilities. A user shall provide necessary wastewater
treatment as required to comply with this chapter, and the use and management/
facilities plan shall achieve compliance with all applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements set out in this chapter within the time limitations
specified by the EPA, State DEQ or the Public Works, whichever is more
stringent. Any facilities required to pretreat wastewater to a level acceptable
to the city shall be provided, operated and maintained at the user’s expense.
Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and operating procedures
shall be submitted to the city for review and shall be acceptable to the city
before construction of the facility. The review of such plans and operating
procedures will in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying
the facility as necessary to produce an acceptable discharge to the POTW under
the provisions of this chapter.
   (I)   Compliance deadline.
      (1)   Deadline for compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements by existing users (categorical users) covered by categorical
pretreatment standards shall be within three years of the date the standard is
effective unless a shorter compliance time is specified in the appropriate
standard. The city shall establish a final compliance deadline date for any
existing user not covered by categorical pretreatment standards or for any
categorical user when the local limits for said user are more restrictive than
EPA’s categorical pretreatment standards.
      (2)   New source dischargers and new users that are considered
significant industrial users (SIU) are required to comply with applicable
pretreatment standards within the shortest feasible time (not to exceed 90 days
from the beginning of discharge). New sources and new users shall install and
have in operating condition and shall start up all pollution control equipment
required to meet applicable pretreatment standards before beginning to
discharge.
      (3)   Any wastewater discharge permit issued to a categorical user shall
not contain a compliance date beyond any deadline date established in EPA’s
categorical pretreatment standards. Any existing user or a categorical user
which is in noncompliance with one or more local limits shall be provided with
a compliance schedule placed in an industrial wastewater permit to ensure
compliance within the shortest time feasible. See §
04-07-17(E) for further detail on compliance schedules.
   (J)   Additional pretreatment measures. The Public Works Director may:
      (1)   Require a user to restrict its discharge during peak flow and/or
designate that certain wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers,
relocate, consolidate points of discharge, separate sewage waste streams from
industrial waste streams and/or impose other conditions necessary to protect
the POTW and to determine the user’s compliance with said requirements;
      (2)   Issue a wastewater discharge permit solely for flow equalization;
      (3)   Require that grease, oil and sand interceptors be provided when he
or she or the POTW deems it necessary for the proper handling of wastewater
containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand; provided, however
that:
         (a)   Such interceptors shall not be required for residential user;
         (b)   Such interception units shall be of a type and capacity approved
by the Public Works Director and shall be so located to be easily accessible
for cleaning and inspection;
         (c)   Such interception units shall be located outside of the public
right-of-way and outside of utility easements;
         (d)   Such interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned and repaired
regularly in accordance with established BMPs, for their reasonable operational
efficiency by the user at the user’s expense;
         (e)   The introduction of chemical, bacteria, enzyme or any other
additive into an interceptor, directly or indirectly, that cause interference
with the normal operation of the unit or causes passthrough of prohibited
substances is prohibited, unless specifically otherwise authorized by the
Public Works Director or Superintendent, or his or her designee; and
         (f)   Interceptor maintenance and cleaning records shall be maintained
by the user and made available to pretreatment inspectors for review upon
request.
      (4)   Require a user with the potential to discharge flammable substances
to install and maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter.
   (K)   Accidental discharge/slug control plans. The Public Works Director
shall evaluate whether each SIU needs an accidental discharge/slug discharge
control plan or other action to control slug discharges. The Public Works
Director may require any user to develop, submit for approval and implement
such a plan or take such other action that may be necessary to control slug
discharges. Alternatively, the Public Works Director may develop such a plan
for any user. An accidental discharge/slug discharge control plan shall
address, at a minimum, the following:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW of any accidental or
slug discharge. Such notification must also be given for any discharge which
would violate any of the standards in divisions (B) and (C) above;
      (4)   Procedures to prevent adverse impact from any accidental or slug
discharge. Such procedures include, but are not limited to, inspection and
maintenance of storage areas, handling and transfer of materials, loading and
unloading operations, control of plant site runoff, worker training, building
of containment structures or equipment, measures for containing toxic organic
pollutants, including solvents, and/or measures and equipment for emergency
response;
      (5)   Within five days following an accidental discharge, the user shall
submit to the Public Works Director a detailed written report describing the
cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, fish kills or any other damage to person or property; nor
shall such notification relieve the user of any fines, civil penalties or other
liability which may be imposed by this chapter or other applicable law;
      (6)   Signs shall be permanently posted in conspicuous places on the
user’s premises advising employees whom to call in the event of a slug or
accidental discharge. Employers shall instruct all employees who may cause or
discover such a discharge with respect to emergency notification procedures;
and
      (7)   Significant industrial users are required to notify the POTW
immediately of any changes at its facility affecting potential for a slug
discharge.
   (L)   Septic tank wastes.
      (1)   Septic tank wastes may be introduced into the POTW only at a
designated receiving structure within the treatment plant area, and at such
times as are established by the Public Works Director. Such wastes shall not
violate this section or any other requirements established or adopted by the
city. Wastewater discharge permits for individual vehicles to use such
facilities shall be issued by the Public Works Director in accordance with §
04-07-15(A)(2).
      (2)   No load may be discharged without prior consent of the Treatment
Plant Superintendent or his or her authorized designee. The Superintendent may
collect samples of each hauled load to ensure compliance with applicable
pretreatment standards. The Superintendent may require the hauler to provide a
waste analysis of any load prior to discharge.
      (3)   Septage haulers must provide a waste-tracking form for every load.
This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the waste
hauler, permit number, truck identification, sources of waste and volume and
characteristics of waste.
      (4)   Under no conditions shall the Superintendent accept trucked or
hauled wastes into the city sewer system that are classified as hazardous
wastes under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§
6901 et seq. or by state statutes or rules adopted by the state legislature
pursuant to the State Administrative Procedures Act, being Idaho Code Title 67,
Chapter 52.
(Ord. 2751, passed 6-16-2008; Ord. 3364, passed 8-16-2021)
§ 04-07-09 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT/SPECIAL AGREEMENT PERMIT/ MONITORING,
INSPECTION AND SURVEYANCE CHARGES AND FEES.
   The Public Works Director shall develop and charge, subject to the approval
by the city, the following reasonable fees:
   (A)   Fees for wastewater discharge permits, special agreement permits,
applications for wastewater discharge permits and/or special agreements;
   (B)   Fees for monitoring, inspection and surveyance procedures, including
the cost of collection and analyzing user’s discharge, and reviewing monitoring
reports submitted by users;
   (C)   Fees for reviewing and responding to accidental discharge procedures
and construction;
   (D)   Fees for filing appeals;
   (E)   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein. These fees relate solely to the matters covered
by this chapter and are separate from all other fees, fines and penalties
chargeable by the city; and
   (F)   All of the above-stated fees shall be reasonably calculated to
reimburse the city for the costs of processing applications for permits, the
setting up and operating of the wastewater discharge permit monitoring,
inspection and surveyance program and, in the case of wastewater discharge
permits, special agreement permits, fees for said permits shall be in an amount
in accordance with reasonable charges for the recovery of the costs of
operating, maintaining, replacing and the depreciation of the POTW, and may
include charges for the cost of expansion and/or extension of the POTW, all in
relation to the use allowed by the permit, all in accordance with the POTW/use
and management plan.
(Ord. 1997, passed 9-7-1993; Ord. 3364, passed 8-16-2021)
§ 04-07-11 POTW USE AND MANAGEMENT PLAN; PROMULGATION.
   The Public Works Director shall, within a reasonable period subsequent to
the passage of this chapter and from time to time thereafter, and no less
frequently than herein this chapter required, cause to be prepared and or
revised and provided to the authority (City Council), a POTW facilities plan
which shall include, in addition to the provisions set forth in the definition
hereinabove contained, an evaluation and recommendation of the improvements to
the POTW anticipated for permit compliance and future growth.
(Ord. 3364, passed 8-16-2021)
§ 04-07-13 ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE PLAN; PROMULGATION.
   The Public Works Director shall:
   (A)   Within a reasonable period subsequent to the passage of this chapter
and from time to time thereafter, and no less frequently than herein this
chapter required, cause to be prepared and or revised and submitted to the
authority (City Council) for approval, an enforcement response plan which shall
be designed to regulate how the Public Works Director determines the
appropriate response to a specific violation of this chapter or any permit or
special agreement issued pursuant to this chapter. The enforcement response
plan shall include the enforcement responses that may be appropriate in
relation to the nature and severity of the violation and overall degree of
noncompliance and provide a guide to encourage the uniform application of
enforcement responses to comparable levels and types of violations; and
   (B)   When making revisions to the enforcement response plan, the city shall
hold one public hearing upon ten days’ notice of hearing published in the
official paper of the city and mailed to the permittees, for the receipt of
testimony on the proposed draft by the Public Works Director, prior
consideration for adoption by the authority (City Council).
(Ord. 3364, passed 8-16-2021)
§ 04-07-15 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Wastewater discharge permits.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for significant industrial users (SIU), or
categorical industrial users (CIU), to discharge wastewater, either directly or
indirectly, into the POTW without first obtaining a wastewater discharge permit
from the Public Works Director. Any violation of the terms and conditions of a
wastewater discharge permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and
subjects the wastewater discharge permittee to the sanctions set out in this
chapter. Obtaining a wastewater discharge permit does not relieve a permittee
of its obligation to comply with all federal and state pretreatment standards
or requirements or with any other requirements of federal, state and local law.
      (2)   The Public Works Director may require a user, including liquid
waste haulers, to obtain wastewater discharge permits (as necessary) to carry
out the purposes of this chapter, and in accordance with the POTW facilities
plan.
   (B)   Wastewater discharge permitting; new source and new user. At least 90
days prior to the anticipated start up, new sources, sources that become a user
subsequent to the promulgation of an applicable categorical pretreatment
standard and a new user considered by the Public Works Director to fit the
definition of SIU, shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit and will be
required to submit to the Public Works Director, the information listed in
division (D) below. A new source or new user cannot discharge without first
receiving a wastewater discharge permit from the Public Works Director. A new
source and new user shall also be required to include in its application
information on the method of pretreatment the user intends to use to meet
applicable pretreatment standards. A new source and new user shall give
estimates of the information requested in divisions (D)(4) and (D)(5) below.
   (C)   Wastewater discharge permitting; extra-jurisdictional users. Any
existing user located beyond the city limits required to obtain a wastewater
discharge permit shall submit a wastewater discharge permit application as
outlined in §
04-07-39(C). A new source and new user located beyond the city limits required
to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall comply with division (B) above.
   (D)   Wastewater discharge permit application contents. A user required to
obtain a wastewater discharge permit must submit, at a minimum, the following
information. The Public Works Director shall approve a form to be used as a
permit application. A categorical user submitting the following information
shall have complied with 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b).
      (1)   Identifying information. The user shall submit the name and address
of the facility including the name of the operator and owners.
      (2)   Permits. The user shall submit a list of any environmental control
permits held by or for the facility.
      (3)   Description of operations. The user shall submit a brief
description of the nature, average rate of production and standard industrial
classification of the operation(s) carried out by such industrial user,
including a list of all raw materials and chemicals used or stored at the
facility which are, or could accidentally or intentionally be, discharged to
the POTW; number and type of employees; hours of operation; each product
produced by type, amount, process or processes and rate of production; type and
amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum per day) and the time
and duration of discharges. This description should also include a schematic
process diagram which indicates points of discharge to the POTW from the
regulated or manufacturing processes. Disclosure of site plans, floor plans,
mechanical and plumbing plans and details to show all sewers, sewer
connections, inspection manholes, sampling chambers and appurtenance by size,
location and elevation.
      (4)   Flow measurement.
         (a)   Categorical user. The user shall submit information showing the
measured average daily and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW
from each of the following:
            1.   Regulated or manufacturing process streams; and
            2.   Other streams as necessary to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula of 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e).
         (b)   Non-categorical user. The user shall submit information showing
the measured average daily and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the
POTW from each of the following: total process flow, wastewater treatment plant
flow, total plant flow or individual manufacturing process flow as required by
the Public Works Director. The Public Works Director may allow for verifiable
estimates of these flows where justified by cost or feasibility considerations.
      (5)   Measurements of pollutants.
         (a)   Categorical user.
            1.   The user shall identify the applicable pretreatment standards
for each regulated or manufacturing process.
            2.   In addition, the user shall submit the results of sampling and
analysis identifying the nature and concentration limit required by the
categorical pretreatment standard or as required by the city of regulated
pollutants (including standards contained in §
04-07-07(A) through (C), as appropriate) in the discharge from each regulated
or manufacturing process. Both daily maximum and average concentration (or
mass, where required) shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of
daily operations and shall conform to sampling and analytical procedures
outlined in §
04-07-19.
            3.   The user shall take a minimum of one representative sample to
compile that data necessary to comply with the requirements of this division
(D)(5).
            4.   Where an alternate concentration or mass limit has been
calculated in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c) for a categorical user
covered by a categorical pretreatment standard this adjusted limit along with
supporting data shall be submitted as part of the application.
         (b)   Noncategorical user.
            1.   Applicable pretreatment standards: The user shall identify the
applicable pretreatment standards for its wastewater discharge.
            2.   Sampling and analysis results: In addition, the user shall
submit the results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and
concentration of regulated pollutants contained in §
04-07-07(A) through (C), as appropriate in the discharge. Both daily maximum
and average concentration shall be reported. The sample shall be representative
of daily operations and shall conform to sampling and analytical procedures
outlined in §
04-07-19.
            3.   Compliance: The user shall take a minimum of one
representative sample to compile that data necessary to comply with the
requirements of this division (D)(5).
            4.   Adjusted limits: Where the Public Works Director developed
alternate concentration limits because of dilution, this adjusted limit along
with supporting data shall be submitted as part of the application.
      (6)   Certification. A statement, reviewed by an authorized
representative of the user and certified by a qualified professional as
outlined in division (E) below, indicating whether the applicable pretreatment
standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not, whether additional
operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional pretreatment is required for
the user to meet the applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
      (7)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the applicable pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule
by which the user will provide such additional pretreatment and/or O&M. The
user’s schedule shall conform with the requirements of §
04-07-17(E). The completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the
compliance date established pursuant to §
04-07-07(I).
         (a)   Where the user’s categorical pretreatment standard has been
modified by the combined waste stream formula (40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e)), and/or a
fundamentally different factors variance (40 C.F.R. § 403.13) at the time the
user submits the report required by this division (D)(7), the information
required by divisions (D)(3), (D)(4), (D)(5) and (D)(6) above shall pertain to
the modified limits.
         (b)   If the categorical pretreatment standard is modified by the
combined waste stream formula (40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e)), and/or a fundamentally
different factors variance (40 C.F.R. § 403.13) after the user submits the
report required by this division (D)(7), the information required by divisions
(D)(3), (D)(4), (D)(5) and (D)(6) above and this division (D)(7) shall be
submitted by the user within 60 days after the modified limit is approved.
      (8)   Other information. Any other information as may be deemed necessary
by the Public Works Director to evaluate the wastewater discharge permit
application. Incomplete or inaccurate applications will not be processed and
will be returned to the user for revision.
   (E)   Signatory and certification requirement. All wastewater discharge
permit applications and user reports must be signed by an authorized
representative of the user and contain the following certification statement.
 
   I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering information, the information
submitted is to the best of my knowledge and belief, true, accurate and
complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false
information, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment for knowing
violations.
 
   (F)   Wastewater discharge permit decisions. The Public Works Director shall
evaluate the data furnished by the user and may require additional information
if reasonable under the circumstances. Within 30 days of receipt of a complete
wastewater discharge permit application, the Public Works Director shall
determine whether or not to issue a wastewater discharge permit. Upon a
determination to issue a permit, the permit shall be issued within 30 days of
full evaluation and acceptance of the data furnished. In the event the Public
Works Director determines to deny the application for a wastewater discharge
permit, he or she shall set forth in that denial the provisions of this chapter
and the standards used in evaluating the application, the reasons for the
denial and the actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain
approval.
   (G)   Wastewater discharge permit contents. Wastewater discharge permits
shall be issued in accordance with the criteria and provisions of the POTW
facilities plan and shall include such conditions as are reasonably necessary
to prevent passthrough or interference, protect the quality of the water body
receiving the treatment plant’s effluent, protect worker health and safety,
facilitate sludge management and disposal and protect against damage to the
POTW.
      (1)   Wastewater discharge permits must contain the following conditions:
         (a)   A statement that indicates wastewater discharge permit duration,
which in no event shall exceed five years;
         (b)   A statement that the wastewater discharge permit is non-
transferable without prior notification to and approval from the city, and
provisions for furnishing the new owner or operator with a copy of the existing
wastewater discharge permit;
         (c)   Effluent limits, including best management practices, based on
applicable pretreatment standards;
         (d)   Self and/or authority monitoring, sampling, reporting,
notification, submittal of technical reports, compliance schedules and
recordkeeping requirements. These requirements shall include an identification
of pollutants to be monitored, sampling location, sampling frequency and sample
type based on federal, state and local law;
         (e)   Requirement for immediate notification to the city where self-
monitoring results indicate noncompliance;
         (f)   Requirement to report a bypass or upset of a pretreatment
facility;
         (g)   Requirement for the SIU who reports noncompliance to repeat the
sampling and analysis and submit results to the city within 30 days after
becoming aware of the violation;
         (h)   A statement of applicable civil, criminal and administrative
penalties for violation of pretreatment standards and requirements, and any
applicable compliance schedule;
         (i)   If determined necessary, a requirement for the development and
implementation of slug discharge prevention plans and notification requirements
associated with slug discharges;
         (j)   The process for seeking a waiver for pollutants not present or
expected to be present; and
         (k)   Any grant of the monitoring waiver by the Superintendent must be
included as a condition in the user’s permit (or other control mechanism).
      (2)   Wastewater discharge permits may contain, but need not be limited
to, the following conditions:
         (a)   Limits on the average and/or maximum rate of discharge, time of
discharge and/or requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
         (b)   Requirements for the installation of pretreatment technology,
pollution control or construction of appropriate containment devices, designed
to reduce, eliminate or prevent the introduction of pollutants into the
treatment works;
         (c)   Development and implementation of waste minimization plans to
reduce the amount of pollutants discharged to the POTW;
         (d)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
management of the wastewater discharged to the POTW;
         (e)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities and equipment;
         (f)   A statement that compliance with the wastewater discharge permit
does not relieve the permittee of responsibility for compliance with all
applicable federal and state pretreatment standards, including those which
become effective during the term of the wastewater discharge permit;
         (g)   Any special agreements the Public Works Director chooses to
continue or develop between the city and user; and
         (h)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Public Works
Director to ensure compliance with this chapter and state and federal laws,
rules and regulations.
   (H)   Wastewater discharge permit duration. Wastewater discharge permits
shall be issued for a specified time period, not to exceed five years. A
wastewater discharge permit may be issued for a period less than five years, at
the discretion of the Public Works Director. Each wastewater discharge permit
will indicate a specific date upon which it will expire.
   (I)   Wastewater discharge permit/special agreement modification. The Public
Works Director may modify a wastewater discharge permit/special agreement for
good cause in accordance with the POTW use and management plan and this chapter
and including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   To incorporate any new or revised federal, state or local
pretreatment standards or requirements;
      (2)   To address significant alterations or additions to the user’s
operation, processes or wastewater volume or character since the time of
wastewater discharge permit issuance;
      (3)   A change in the POTW that requires either a temporary or permanent
reduction or elimination of the authorized discharge;
      (4)   A change in the POTW facilities plan by the city;
      (5)   Information indicating that the permitted discharge poses a threat
to the POTW, persons working with the POTW or the receiving waters;
      (6)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the wastewater discharge
permit;
      (7)   Misrepresentations or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application or in any required reporting;
      (8)   Revision of or a grant of variance from categorical pretreatment
standards pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.13;
      (9)   To correct typographical or other errors in the wastewater
discharge permit;
      (10)   To reflect a transfer of the facility ownership and/or operation
to a new owner/operator; or
      (11)   To make appropriate modifications to fee structure or arrangements
to keep the city whole with respect to the operation, maintenance, depreciation
and future compliance needs associated with receiving the discharge.
   (J)   Wastewater discharge permit/special agreement transfer.
      (1)   Wastewater discharge permits/special agreements may be reassigned
or transferred to a new owner and/or operator only if the permittee gives at
least 90 days’ advance notice to the Public Works Director and the Public Works
Director approves the wastewater discharge permit/special agreement transfer.
The notice to the Public Works Director must include a written certification by
the new owner and/or operator which:
         (a)   States that the new owner and/or operator has no immediate
intent to change the facility’s operations and processes;
         (b)   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur;
and
         (c)   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
wastewater discharge permit/special agreement.
      (2)   Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer renders the
wastewater discharge permit voidable as of the date of facility transfer.
      (3)   Provided, that the above occurs and that there were no significant
changes to the manufacturing operation or wastewater discharge, the new owner
will be considered an existing user and be covered by the existing limits and
requirements in the previous owner’s permit.
   (K)   Wastewater discharge permit revocation. Wastewater discharge permits
may be revoked for, but not limited to, the following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to notify the city of significant changes to the wastewater
content or quantity prior to the changed discharge;
      (2)   Failure to provide prior notification to the city of changed
conditions;
      (3)   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose all relevant facts
in the wastewater discharge permit application;
      (4)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports;
      (5)   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
      (6)   Refusing to allow the city timely access to the facility premises
and records;
      (7)   Failure to meet discharge limitations;
      (8)   Failure to pay fines;
      (9)   Failure to pay sewer charges;
      (10)   Failure to meet compliance schedules;
      (11)   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater
discharge permit application;
      (12)   Failure to provide advance notice of the transfer of a permitted
facility;
      (13)   If the Public Works Director has to invoke the city’s emergency
provision as cited in §
04-07-29(G); or
      (14)   Violation of any pretreatment standard or requirement or any terms
of the wastewater discharge permit or this chapter.
   (L)   When permit is voidable. Wastewater discharge permits/special
agreements shall be voidable by the Public Works Director upon cessation of
operations or transfer of business ownership. All wastewater discharge permits/
special agreements issued and/or entered into, to a particular user, are void
upon the issuance of a new wastewater discharge permit and/or entering into a
new special agreement with that user by the Public Works Director.
   (M)   Permit denial procedure.
      (1)   In the event the Public Works Director shall take action to modify,
revoke, void and/or deny the transfer of a permit/special agreement issued
pursuant to this chapter, the Public Works Director shall first provide written
notice to the permittee or affected user of such intended action and must, in
said notice, specify the following:
         (a)   The statute, ordinances and/or standards used to evaluate;
         (b)   The reasons for the intended action; and
         (c)   The actions, if any, the user could take to avoid the intended
action.
      (2)   The Public Works Director shall, simultaneous to giving notice,
issue a show cause hearing notice to the affected user pursuant to the
procedures set forth in §
04-07-29.
   (N)   Wastewater discharge permit reissuance; Public Works Director. A user
with an expiring individual wastewater discharge permit shall apply for
individual wastewater discharge permit reissuance by submitting a complete
permit application, a minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration of the user’s
existing individual wastewater discharge permit.
(Ord. 3364, passed 8-16-2021)
§ 04-07-17 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Categorical pretreatment reporting requirements.
      (1)   All categorical industrial users (CIU) must comply with 40 C.F.R. §
403.12(b) and (d) regarding submission of baseline monitoring reports and 90-
day compliance reports.
      (2)   To demonstrate continued compliance, categorical industrial users
(CIUs) shall submit to the Pretreatment Coordinator a report indicating the
nature and concentration of pollutants in their effluent which are limited by
categorical pretreatment standards, a record of measured or estimated average
and maximum daily flows for the reporting period, a description of the nature,
concentration and flow of the pollutants in their discharge and production data
in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(e)(3). The reports are due twice per
year, with one report due by December 31, and the other report due by June 30,
unless more frequent reporting is specified in the industrial user’s discharge
permit. The reports shall be based on sampling and analysis performed during
the period covered by the report and performed in accordance with the
techniques described in 40 C.F.R. part 136 and amendments thereto.
   (B)   Self-reporting requirements.
      (1)   To demonstrate continued compliance, significant non-categorical
industrial users shall submit to the Pretreatment Coordinator a description of
the nature, concentration and flow of pollutants in their discharge, at the
frequency specified in the industrial user’s discharge permit, with the minimum
frequency being once every six months. The reports shall be based on sampling
and analysis performed during the period covered by the report and performed in
accordance with the techniques described in 40 C.F.R. part 136 and amendments
thereto.
      (2)   This sampling and analysis may be performed by the city in lieu of
the significant non-categorical industrial user. Where the city itself collects
all the information required for the report, the non-categorical significant
industrial user will not be required to submit the report; however, the
significant non-categorical industrial user must reimburse the city for its
cost of sampling and analysis.
   (C)   Noncompliance reporting requirements. If sampling performed by an
industrial user indicates a violation, the user shall notify the Public Works
Director or Superintendent by telephone within 24 hours of becoming aware of
the violation, and then submit a detailed written explanation within five days
of the noncompliance instance. The user shall also repeat the sampling and
analysis and submit the results to the Public Works Director and Superintendent
within 30 days after becoming aware of the violation. Resampling is not
required if the authority performs sampling at the industrial user’s facility
at a frequency of at least once per month or if the authority conducted
monitoring between the time the sample was collected, indicating the violation,
and the time the analytical results were received by the Public Works Director.
   (D)   Extra sampling data from significant industrial users. If a
categorical or significant industrial user monitors the regulated outfall(s)
for any pollutant more frequently than required by the authority, using the
procedures specified in 40 C.F.R. part 136, and amendments thereto, the results
shall be included in the industrial user’s self-monitoring report. If the
categorical or significant industrial user monitors the regulated outfall(s)
for a pollutant not regulated by the permit, using procedures specified in 40
C.F.R. part 136, and amendments thereto, the results shall be included in the
industrial user’s self-monitoring report.
   (E)   Compliance schedule progress reports. Compliance schedules may be
issued by the Public Works Director to users as a condition of a wastewater
discharge permit or as an enforcement action under this chapter. The following
conditions shall apply to the compliance schedule.
      (1)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (such events include, but are not limited to,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing contracts
for major components, commencing and completing construction and commencement
of routine operations).
      (2)   No increment referred to above shall exceed 90 days.
      (3)   The user shall submit a progress report to the authority no later
than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance, including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule.
      (4)   In no event shall more than 90 days elapse between such progress
reports to the city.
   (F)   Signatory and certification requirements. All reports must be signed
by an authorized representative of the industrial user’s respective industry as
defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(I) and certified using the following
certification statement specified in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(a)(2)(ii) and any other
certification statements required by the city.
 
   I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true, accurate
and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting
false information, including the possibility of fine and imprisonment for
knowing violations.
         Authorized Representative:  (signature)
         Date:                  
 
   (G)   Fraud and false statements. The reports and other documents required
of the industrial users are subject to the provisions of 18 U.S.C. § 1001
relating to fraud and false statements and the provisions of § 309(c)(4) of the
Act, as amended, being 33 U.S.C. § 1319(c)(4), governing false statements,
representation or certification in reports required under the Act and the
provisions of § 309(c)(6) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1319(c)(6) regarding
responsible corporate officers.
   (H)   Notification of changed discharge. All industrial users shall notify
the Public Works Director 30 days prior to discharge of any substantial change
in the volume or character of pollutants in their discharge, including the
listed or characteristic hazardous wastes for which the industrial user has
submitted initial notification under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(p).
   (I)   Notification of potential problems. All industrial users shall notify
the Superintendent immediately of all discharges that could cause problems to
the POTW, and follow with written documentation to the Public Works Director
and Superintendent within five days of notifying the Superintendent.
Significant industrial users are required to notify the Superintendent and
Public Works Director immediately of any changes at its facility affecting the
potential for a slug discharge.
   (J)   Action plan. If required by the POTW, the user shall provide an action
plan for the control of slug discharges containing those elements set forth in
40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(2)(vi). With or without such plan, any permitted user or
user subject to a special agreement shall immediately notify the POTW
concerning any slug discharge or similar unexpected release. If such a
discharge is known or anticipated, such notice shall be provided as soon as
practicable. If a changed discharge or other change is experienced or
anticipated, notification shall be provided as soon as possible in accordance
with divisions (H) and (I) above.
   (K)   Timing.
      (1)   Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the date
postmarked. For reports which are not mailed, postage prepaid, into a mail
facility serviced by the U.S. Postal Service, the date of receipt of the report
shall govern.
      (2)   Due dates falling on a weekend will be due the following Monday.
Reports due on a holiday will be due on the business day following the holiday.
   (L)   Hazardous waste notification.
      (1)   Any user that is discharging 15 kilograms of hazardous wastes as
defined in 40 C.F.R. part 261 (listed or characteristic wastes) in a calendar
month or any facility discharging any amount of acutely hazardous wastes as
specified in 40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e) is required to provide a one-
time notification in writing to the city, the Director of the EPA Region Office
of Air, Waste and Toxic Chemicals and the State Department of Health and
Welfare Hazardous Waste Division. Any existing user exempt from this
notification shall comply with the requirements contained herein within 30 days
of becoming aware of a discharge of 15 kilograms of hazardous wastes in a
calendar month or the discharge of acutely hazardous wastes to the POTW.
      (2)   This provision shall not be construed to allow a permittee to
discharge outside the limits of its permit.
      (3)   Such notification shall include:
         (a)   The name of the hazardous waste as set forth in 40 C.F.R. part
261;
         (b)   The EPA hazardous waste number;
         (c)   The type of discharge (continuous, batch or other);
         (d)   If an industrial user discharges more than 100 kilograms of such
waste per calendar month to the sewer system, the notification shall also
contain the following information to the extent it is known or readily
available to the industrial user:
            1.   An identification of the hazardous constituents contained in
the wastes;
            2.   An estimation of the concentration of such constituents in the
waste streams discharged during that calendar month; and
            3.   An estimation of the mass of constituents in the waste streams
expected to be discharged during the following 12 months.
         (e)   These notification requirements do not apply to pollutants
already reported under the self-monitoring requirements.
      (4)   Whenever the EPA publishes final rules identifying additional
hazardous wastes or new characteristics of hazardous waste, a user shall notify
the Public Works Director of the discharge of such a substance within 90 days
of the effective date of such regulations.
      (5)   In the case of any notification made under this division (L), an
industrial user shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the
volume and toxicity of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has
determined to be economically practical.
   (M)   Notice of potential problems, including accidental spills, slug
loadings. Any user shall notify the Public Works Director immediately, via
phone, followed by a written notification within five days of all discharges
that could cause problems to the POTW, including any slug loadings, as defined
in §
04-07-05(A). The notification shall include the concentration and volume and
corrective action. Steps being taken to reduce any adverse impact should also
be noted during/in written notification.
   (N)   Expenses, loss or damage from slug load discharge. Any user who
discharges a “slug” (or slugs) of pollutants shall be liable for any expense,
loss or damage to the POTW, in addition to the amount of any fines imposed by
the Public Works Director, for violations of the discharge permit.
   (O)   Reports from users not required to obtain a permit. All users not
required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall provide appropriate
reports to the city as the Public Works Director may require.
   (P)   Recordkeeping. Users subject to the reporting requirements of this
chapter shall retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all
records of information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required
by this chapter, including documentation associated with best management
practices and any additional records of information obtained pursuant to
monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements.
Records shall include the date, exact place, method and time of sampling and
the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses were
performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or methods
used; and the results of such analyses. These records shall remain available
for a period of at least three years following the expiration of the permit.
This period shall be automatically extended for the duration of any litigation
concerning the user or POTW, or where the user has been specifically notified
of a longer retention period by the Public Works Director.
   (Q)   Certification. Upon approval of the monitoring waiver and revision of
the user’s control mechanism by the control authority, the industrial user must
certify on each report, with the statement below, that there has been no
increase in the pollutants in its waste stream due to activities of the
industrial user.
 
   Based on my inquiry of the person or persons directly responsible for managing
compliance with the Pretreatment Standard for 40 C.F.R.          (specify applicable
National Pretreatment Standard parts(s)), I certify that, to the best of my knowledge
and belief, there has been no increase in the level of                   (list
pollutant(s)) in the wastewater due to the activities at the facility since filing of
the last periodic report under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(e)(1).
 
(Ord. 2751, passed 6-16-2008; Ord. 3364, passed 8-16-2021)
§ 04-07-19 ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All pollutant analyses, including sampling techniques, shall be performed in
accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 C.F.R. part 136, unless
otherwise specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard. If 40
C.F.R. part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical techniques for the
pollutant in question, sampling and analyses must be performed in accordance
with procedures approved by the EPA.
(Ord. 3364, passed 8-16-2021)
§ 04-07-21 COMPLIANCE MONITORING.
   (A)   Inspection.
      (1)   Right of entry. The authority and/or agents representing the
authority shall be allowed to inspect any facilities, equipment, practices or
operations which are associated with the industrial user’s discharge into the
POTW to ascertain whether the purpose of this chapter, and any permit or order
issued hereunder, is being met and whether the industrial user is complying
with all requirements thereof. The authority, and/or agents of the authority,
shall be allowed to have access to all parts of the premises for the purposes
of inspection, sampling, records examination and copying, and the performance
of any additional duties. All records must be kept in accordance with the
conditions of the user’s discharge permit and be readily available for
inspection.
      (2)   Permitted entry with proper identification. Where an industrial
user has security measures in force which require proper identification and
clearance before entry into its premises, the industrial user shall make
necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation of
suitable identification, personnel from the city, state and EPA will be
permitted to enter without delay, for the purposes of performing their specific
responsibilities. The city will conduct, at a minimum, one inspection at each
SIU annually.
   (B)   Sampling.
      (1)   Frequency. The Public Works Director is authorized to require
samples of wastewater discharges from industrial users as often as necessary to
adequately monitor and control their discharge. In the event the Public Works
Director requires such samples, a user shall retain the services of a reputable
commercial laboratory and pay all costs of sample collection and laboratory
services to determine and report the wastewater characteristics.
      (2)   Annual sample; cost. The control authority shall sample and analyze
the effluent from significant industrial users at least once a year. Samples
may be randomly collected at users’ facilities by the authority or its
authorized representative. The cost of such sampling and laboratory analyses
shall be paid by the industrial users.
      (3)   Techniques. All handling and preservation of collected samples and
laboratory analyses of samples shall be performed in accordance with 40 C.F.R.
part 136 and amendments thereto. Where 40 C.F.R. part 136 does not contain
sampling or analytical techniques for the pollutant in question, or where the
EPA determines that 40 C.F.R. part 136 sampling and analytical techniques are
inappropriate for the pollutant in question, sampling and analysis shall be
performed by using validated analytical procedures, including procedures
suggested by the POTW or other persons approved by the EPA.
      (4)   Obstructions. Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and
easy access to the industrial facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be
promptly removed by the industrial user at the written or verbal request of the
Pretreatment Coordinator and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such
access shall be borne by the industrial user.
      (5)   Unreasonable delays in allowing access; violation. Unreasonable
delays in allowing city personnel access to the industrial user’s premises
shall be a violation of this chapter.
      (6)   Documentation. All samples collected for compliance monitoring by
the industrial user, the city or its authorized agents shall be fully
documented to demonstrate the integrity of the sample from the time of sample
collection through the chemical analysis and the reporting of the analytical
results. Sample integrity documentation shall be accomplished by use of a field
chain-of-custody form, approved by the city, and the analytical laboratory’s
sample custody system.
      (7)   Samples must be typical. All samples must be representative of the
discharge characteristic typically discharged from the facility.
      (8)   Grab and composite samples.
         (a)   Grab samples must be used for pH; cyanide (CN); total phenols;
oil and grease (O&G); fat, oil and grease (FOG); sulfide; and volatile organic
compounds.
         (b)   Twenty-four-hour composite samples must be obtained through
flow-proportional composite sampling techniques for all other pollutants not
listed in division (B)(8)(a) above, unless time-proportional composite sampling
or grab sampling is authorized by the control authority. Where time-
proportional composite sampling or grab sampling is authorized by the city, the
samples must be representative of the discharge and the decision to allow the
alternative sampling must be documented in the industrial user’s file for that
facility or facilities.
         (c)   Multiple grab samples collected during a 24-hour period may be
composited prior to the analysis as follows: for cyanide, total phenols and
sulfides, the samples may be composited in the laboratory or in the field; for
volatile organics; oil and grease; and fats, oil and grease, the samples may be
composited in the laboratory. Composite samples for other parameters unaffected
by the compositing procedures may be authorized by the city, as appropriate.
         (d)   For sampling required in support of categorical baseline
monitoring and 90-day compliance reports, a minimum of four grab samples must
be used for pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease, sulfides and volatile
organic compounds for facilities for which historical sampling data do not
exist; for facilities for which historical sampling data are available, the
city may authorize a lower minimum number of grab samples.
         (e)   For the purposes of sampling and compliance, DAILY DISCHARGE
means the discharge of a pollutant measured during a calendar day or any 24-
hour period that reasonably represents the calendar day for purposes of
sampling. During parts of the day when there is no discharge of process
wastewater, standing water should not be disproportionately sampled and
analyzed as it would not be representative of the discharge from the facility.
      (9)   Monitoring equipment. The Superintendent may require the user to
install monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility’s sampling and
monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper
operating condition by the user at its own expense. All devices used to measure
wastewater flow and quality shall be calibrated once per year to ensure their
accuracy.
   (C)   Sampling waiver for pollutants not present. The city may waive the
self-monitoring requirements for individual pollutants, including indicator or
surrogate pollutants, for SIUs and CIUs, providing the following criteria are
met:
      (1)   The SIU/CIU presents sampling results of one or more samples of the
waste stream prior to pretreatment that confirms the pollutant is not present
at concentrations greater than the facility intake water;
      (2)   The sample is confirmed to be representative of the facility
discharge;
      (3)   The pollutant is not expected to be present; and
      (4)   The waiver is incorporated into the permit.
         (a)   The permit must contain the pollutant limits and monitoring
requirements. The waiver is then incorporated into the permit. The data on
which the waiver is issued must be fully documented and retained with the
permit for a period of three years past the expiration of the permit. The
waiver is effective only during the term of the permit. The permit holder may
request another waiver once a new permit has been reissued and an untreated
sample confirms the absence of the pollutant to be waived.
         (b)   If the pollutant is subsequently found to be present or is
expected to be present, the industrial user must immediately resume monitoring
and notify the city. Sampling waivers do not apply to CIU baseline monitoring
or 90-day compliance reporting. The city must sample for the pollutant at least
once during the term of the permit.
   (D)   Determination of noncompliance. The Pretreatment Coordinator shall
evaluate all self-monitoring reports, compliance reports, city monitoring
reports and the results of other investigative actions to determine compliance
to the terms and conditions of wastewater discharge permits and this chapter.
   (E)   Determination of significant noncompliance. The Pretreatment
Coordinator shall evaluate permitted users for significant noncompliance using
the most recent EPA and/or state methodology for evaluation of significant
noncompliance based on the definition of significant noncompliance as per §
04-07-05(A).
   (F)   Search warrants. If the control authority and/or its agent has been
refused access to a building, structure or property, or any part thereof, and
is able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation
of this chapter, or that there is a need to inspect as part of a routine
inspection program of the Public Works Director designed to verify compliance
with this chapter or any wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder,
or to protect the overall public health, safety and welfare of the community,
then the authority and/or its agent shall seek issuance of a search and/or
seizure warrant from the appropriate court of competent jurisdiction. Such
warrant shall be served in compliance with the law.
   (G)   Vandalism. It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, tamper with or prevent access to any
structure, appurtenance or equipment, or other part of the POTW; or monitoring
and surveyance devices placed by the authority for the purpose of monitoring an
industrial user.
(Ord. 2751, passed 6-16-2008; Ord. 3364, passed 8-16-2021)
§ 04-07-23 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys,
wastewater discharge permit applications, wastewater discharge permits and
monitoring programs, and from Public Works Director inspection and sampling
activities, shall be available to the public without restriction, unless the
user specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of
the Public Works Director, that the release of such information would divulge
information, processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade
secrets under applicable state law.
   (B)   When requested and demonstrated by the user furnishing a report that
such information should be held confidential, the portions of a report which
might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made available
for inspection by the public, but shall be made available immediately upon
request to governmental agencies for uses related to the IPDES program or
pretreatment program, and in enforcement proceedings involving the person
furnishing the report.
   (C)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics and other effluent data,
as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 2.302 will not be recognized as confidential
information and will be available to the public without restriction.
(Ord. 2751, passed 6-16-2008; Ord. 3364, passed 8-16-2021)
§ 04-07-25 ENFORCEMENT RESPONSE.
   The Public Works Director shall exercise his or her authority in relation to
user violations and the various enforcement remedies provided by this chapter
in accordance with the criteria set forth in the enforcement response plan.
(Ord. 1997, passed 9-7-1993; Ord. 3364, passed 8-16-2021)
§ 04-07-27 PUBLICATION OF USERS IN SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.
   In accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(2)(vii), at least annually, the
Public Works Director will provide public notification, in a newspaper(s) of
general circulation that provides meaningful public notice within jurisdiction
(s) served by the POTW, of the industrial users which, at any time during the
previous 12 months, were determined to be in significant noncompliance with
applicable pretreatment standards or other pretreatment requirements.
(Ord. 2751, passed 6-16-2008; Ord. 3364, passed 8-16-2021)
§ 04-07-29 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   Notification of violation. When the Public Works Director finds that a
user has violated (or continues to violate) any provision of this chapter, a
wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the Public Works Director may serve upon
that user a written notice of violation (via certified letter). Within 30 days
of the receipt of this notice, an explanation of the violation and a plan for
the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to include specific
required actions, shall be submitted by the user to the Public Works Director.
Submission of this plan in no way relieves the user of liability for any
violations occurring before or after receipt of the notice of violation.
Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the Public Works Director
to take any action, including emergency actions or any other enforcement
action, without first issuing a notice of violation.
   (B)   Consent orders. The Public Works Director may enter into consent
orders, assurances of voluntary compliance or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with any user responsible for noncompliance. Such
documents will include specific action to be taken by the user to correct the
noncompliance within a time period specified by the document. Such documents
shall have the same force and effect as administrative orders issued pursuant
to divisions (D) and (E) below and shall be judicially enforceable. Use of a
consent order shall not be a bar against, or prerequisite for, taking any other
action against the user.
   (C)   Show cause hearing. The Public Works Director may order (via a
certified letter) a user which has violated or continues to violate any
provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, to appear before
the Public Works Director and show cause why the proposed enforcement action
should not be taken. Notice shall be served on the user specifying the time and
place for the meeting, the proposed enforcement action, the reasons for such
action and a request that the user show cause why the proposed enforcement
action should not be taken. The notice of the meeting shall be served
personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) at
least 30 days prior to the hearing. Such notice may be served on any authorized
representative of the user. A show cause hearing shall not be a bar against, or
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   (D)   Compliance orders. When the Public Works Director finds that a user
has violated or continues to violate any provision of this chapter, a
wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the Public Works Director may issue an
order to the user responsible for the discharge directing that the user come
into compliance within a time specified in the order. If the user does not come
into compliance within the time specified in the order, sewer service may be
discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or other related
appurtenances are installed and properly operated. Compliance orders may also
contain other requirements to address the noncompliance, including additional
self-monitoring, and management practices designed to minimize the amount of
pollutants discharged to the sewer. Issuance of a compliance order shall not be
a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   (E)   Cease and desist orders.
      (1)   When the Public Works Director finds that a user has violated (or
continues to violate) any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, or that the user’s past violations are likely to recur, the Public
Works Director may issue an order to the user directing it to cease and desist
all such violations and directing the user to:
         (a)   Immediately comply with all requirements; and
         (b)   Take such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be
needed to properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
      (2)   Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or
a prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   (F)   Administrative fines.
      (1)   When the Public Works Director determines that a user has violated
or continues to violate any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Public Works Director may fine such user in an amount not to
exceed $1,000. Such fines shall be assessed on a per violation, per day basis.
In the case of monthly or other long-term average discharge limits, separate
fines may be assessed for each day during the period of violation.
      (2)   A user desiring to dispute such fines must file a written request
for the Public Works Director to reconsider the fine along with full payment of
the fine amount within 42 days of being notified of the fine. Where a request
has merit, the Public Works Director shall convene a hearing on the matter
within 30 days of receiving the request from the user. In the event the user’s
appeal is successful, the payment, together with any interest accruing thereto,
shall be returned to the user. The city may add the costs of preparing
administrative enforcement actions, such as notices and orders, to the fine.
      (3)   Issuance of an administrative fine shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against the user.
   (G)   Emergency suspensions.
      (1)   The Public Works Director may immediately suspend a user’s
discharge (after informal notice to the user) whenever such suspension is
necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge which reasonably appears to
present or cause an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or
welfare of persons. The Public Works Director may also immediately suspend a
user’s discharge (after notice and opportunity to respond) that threatens to
interfere with the operation of the POTW, or which presents or may present an
endangerment to the environment.
      (2)   Any user notified of a suspension of his, her or its discharge
shall immediately stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user’s
failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the Public
Works Director shall take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate
severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW,
its receiving stream or endangerment to any individuals. The Public Works
Director shall allow the user to recommence its discharge when the user has
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the city that the period of endangerment
has passed, unless the termination proceedings in division (I) below are
initiated against the user. The user shall be responsible for the costs or
contracts associated with reversing the measures to sever the sewer connection
if such severance or discontinuance is performed.
      (3)   A user that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence to the Public Works Director prior to the date of
any show cause or termination hearing under divisions (C) and (H) of this
section.
      (4)   When the Public Works Director issues an order of immediate
suspension under this section, it shall include a brief reasoned statement,
justifying the order that an immediate danger exists and the reasons for taking
the specific action. The order of suspension shall include findings of fact and
conclusions of law.
      (5)   The Public Works Director shall give such notice as is reasonable
to the user who is required to comply with the order, and the order is
effective when issued.
      (6)   Unless otherwise provided by a provision of law, the Public Works
Director’s records need not constitute the exclusive basis for the Public Works
Director’s action in emergency suspensions or for judicial review thereof.
   (H)   Authority to take emergency actions. Nothing in this section shall be
interpreted as requiring a hearing prior to any emergency suspension under this
section so long as there is substantial evidence to support the action of the
Public Works Director in accordance with the provisions of this section and in
accordance with the provisions of §
01-05-07(C).
   (I)   Termination of discharge (non-emergency).
      (1)   In addition to the provisions in §
04-07-15(K), any user that violates the following conditions is subject to
discharge termination:
         (a)   Violation of wastewater discharge permit conditions;
         (b)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
         (c)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or
wastewater volume, constituents and characteristics prior to discharge;
         (d)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the
purpose of inspection, monitoring or sampling; or
         (e)   Violation of the pretreatment standards in §
04-07-07.
      (2)   Such user will be notified of the proposed termination of its
discharge and be offered an opportunity to show cause under division (C) above
why the proposed action should not be taken. Exercise of this option by the
city shall not be a bar to, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action
against the user.
(Ord. 1997, passed 9-7-1993; Ord. 2751, passed 6-16-2008; Ord. 3364, passed 8-
16-2021)
§ 04-07-31 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Any user may petition a decision or determination made by the Public
Works Director relative to the application and/or interpretation of this
chapter to the Board of Appeals, which is hereby created and is hereby
appointed as the duly authorized hearing examiner pursuant to §
01-05-13, which Board of Appeals shall conduct a hearing in accordance with the
terms and provisions of a contested hearing as set forth in Title 1, Chapter 5
of this code, and which Board shall follow the procedures specifically
prescribed in said chapter and this section.
   (B)   The Board of Appeals shall have no authority to waive any requirements
of this chapter or of applicable state or federal rule or law.
   (C)   The Board of Appeals shall consist of not more than five and not less
than three persons who shall be appointed by the city and shall hold office at
its pleasure. The Board of Appeals shall consist of members who are qualified
by experience and training, either technical and/or legal, to pass on matters
coming within their jurisdiction and who are not employees of the city. The
Board shall have the authority to adopt rules of procedure for the conduct of
its business which are not otherwise governed by
Title 1, Chapter 5 of this code.
   (D)   The appeal of any orders, decisions or determinations made by the
Public Works Director shall be considered a contested case, as defined in
Title 1, Chapter 5, and shall be filed within the time period for which an
appeal of said orders, decisions and/or determinations shall be governed by
Title 1, Chapter 5, unless otherwise herein provided, but a notice of appeal
must include the following:
      (1)   Wastewater discharge permit provisions;
      (2)   Order, decision or determination objected to;
      (3)   Reasons for objection; and
      (4)   Any alternate condition, if any, it seeks to place in the
wastewater discharge permit.
   (E)   In the event the Public Works Director has issued an emergency
suspension which has been appealed, the Board of Appeals shall proceed as
quickly as feasible to complete any proceedings that would be required if the
matter did not involve an emergency.
   (F)   If the city fails to act within 60 days, a request for appeal shall be
deemed to be denied. Decisions not to reconsider a wastewater discharge permit,
not to issue a wastewater discharge permit, or not to modify a wastewater
discharge permit, shall be considered final administrative actions for purposes
of judicial review. In the event an appeal is taken for judicial review and the
city has failed to act, the parties to the judicial review shall be entitled to
a de novo hearing.
   (G)   Judicial review of a final decision made under the provisions of this
chapter shall be governed by the appropriate state and/or federal law
applicable to said decision.
(Ord. 1997, passed 9-7-1993; Ord. 3364, passed 8-16-2021)
§ 04-07-33 JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   Injunctive relief. When the Public Works Director finds that a user
has violated (or continues to violate) any provision of this chapter, a
wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the Public Works Director may petition
the District Court of the Third Judicial District in and for the county,
through the City Attorney for the issuance of a temporary or permanent
injunction, as appropriate, which restrains or compels the specific performance
of the wastewater discharge permit, order or other requirement imposed by this
chapter on activities of the user. The Public Works Director may also seek such
other action as is appropriate for legal and/or equitable relief, including a
requirement for the user to conduct environmental remediation. A petition for
injunctive relief shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, taking any
other action against a user.
   (B)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   A user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of
this chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit or order issued
hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable to
the city for a maximum civil penalty of $1,000 per violation, per day. In the
case of a monthly or other long-term average discharge limit, penalties shall
accrue for each day during the period of violation.
      (2)   The Public Works Director may recover reasonable attorneys’ fees,
court costs and all other expenses associated with enforcement activities,
including sampling and monitoring expenses, and the cost of any and all actual
damages incurred by the city (including damages to treatment works, collection
system, fines arising from passthrough interference or any other resulting harm
to the city’s treatment works, or public works infrastructure; also including
restorative costs for damages to any public or private property, injuries or
damages to life or limb of any city employee or private individual arising from
a violation of this chapter).
      (3)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration, any
economic benefit gained through the user’s violation, corrective actions by the
user, the compliance history of the user and any other factor as justice
requires.
      (4)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user.
   (C)   Criminal prosecution.
      (1)   A user who willfully or negligently violates any provision of this
chapter, an individual wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder or
any other pretreatment standard or requirement shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000 per
violation, per day, or imprisonment for not more than six months, or both.
      (2)   A user/domestic user who has willfully or negligently introduced
any substance into the POTW which causes personal injury or property damage
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to fine and/
or imprisonment, up to, but not exceeding, the maximum penalties set forth in
Idaho Code § 50-302, as amended. This penalty shall be in addition to any other
cause of action for personal injury or property damage available under state
law.
      (3)   A user/domestic user who has knowingly made any false statements,
representations or certifications in any application, record, report, plan or
other documentation filed, or required to be maintained, pursuant to this
chapter, wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder, or who
falsified, tampered with or knowingly rendered inaccurate any monitoring device
or method required under this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished by
fine and/or imprisonment, up to, but not exceeding, the maximum penalties set
forth in Idaho Code § 50-302, as amended.
   (D)   Remedies nonexclusive. The provisions in §§
04-07-29 through
04-07-35 are not exclusive remedies. The authority reserves the right to take
any, all or any combination of these actions against a noncompliant user.
Enforcement of pretreatment violations will generally be in accordance with the
enforcement response plan. However, the authority reserves the right to take
other action against any user when the circumstances warrant. Further, the
authority is empowered to take more than one enforcement action against any
noncompliant user. These actions may be taken concurrently.
(Ord. 1997, passed 9-7-1993; Ord. 2751, passed 6-16-2008; Ord. 3364, passed 8-
16-2021)
§ 04-07-35 SUPPLEMENTAL ENFORCEMENT ACTION.
   (A)   Financial guarantee. The Public Works Director may decline to issue or
reissue a wastewater discharge permit to any user which has failed to comply
with any provision of this chapter, a previous wastewater discharge permit or
order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement
unless such user first files a satisfactory financial guarantee, payable to the
city, in a sum not to exceed a value determined by the Public Works Director to
be necessary to achieve consistent compliance.
   (B)   Liability insurance. The Public Works Director may decline to issue or
reissue a wastewater discharge permit to any user which has failed to comply
with any provision of this chapter, a previous wastewater discharge permit or
order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement,
unless the user first submits proof that it has obtained financial assurances
sufficient to restore or repair damage to the POTW caused by its discharge.
   (C)   Water supply severance. Whenever a user has violated or continues to
violate any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit or order
issued hereunder or any other pretreatment standard or requirement, water
service to the user may be severed. Service will only recommence, at the user’s
expense, after it has satisfactorily demonstrated its ability to comply.
   (D)   Public nuisances. A violation of any provision of this chapter, a
wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other
pretreatment standard or requirement, is hereby declared a public nuisance and
shall be corrected or abated as directed by the Public Works Director. Any
person(s) creating a public nuisance shall be subject to the provisions of this
code and/or state code governing such nuisances, including reimbursing the city
for any costs incurred in removing, abating or remedying said nuisance.
(Ord. 1997, passed 9-7-1993; Ord. 2558, passed 10-17-2005; Ord. 3364, passed 8-
16-2021)
§ 04-07-37 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upset.
      (1)   For the purposes of this division (A), UPSET means an exceptional
incident in which there is unintentional and temporary noncompliance with
applicable pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the reasonable
control of the user. An UPSET does not include noncompliance to the extent
caused by operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities,
inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance or careless or
improper operation.
      (2)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action
brought for noncompliance with applicable pretreatment standards if the
requirements of division (A)(3) below are met.
      (3)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset
shall demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs or
other relevant evidence that:
         (a)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
         (b)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
         (c)   The user has submitted the following information to the POTW and
treatment plant operator within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset (if
this information is provided orally, a written submission must be provided
within five days):
            1.   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of
noncompliance;
            2.   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue;
            3.   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance;
            4.   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish
the occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof;
            5.   A user will have the opportunity for a judicial determination
on any claim of upset only in an enforcement action brought for noncompliance
with applicable pretreatment standards; and
            6.   A user shall control production of all discharges to the
extent necessary to maintain compliance with applicable pretreatment standards
upon reduction, loss or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails.
   (B)   Bypass.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (B), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of
a user’s treatment facility.
         SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property,
damage to the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
      (2)   Exception. A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not
cause applicable pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but
only if it also is for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation.
These bypasses are not subject to the provisions of divisions (B)(3) and (B)(4)
below.
      (3)   Advance notice.
         (a)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the POTW, at least ten days before the date of the
bypass, if possible.
         (b)   A user shall submit oral notice to the Superintendent of an
unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards within 24
hours from the time it becomes aware of the bypass. A written submission shall
also be provided within five days of the time that the user becomes aware of
the bypass to the Superintendent and the Public Works Director. The written
submission shall contain a description of the bypass and its cause; the
duration of the bypass, including exact dates and times, and, if the bypass has
not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue; and steps
taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent reoccurrence of the bypass.
The Public Works Director may waive the written report on a case-by-case basis
if the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
      (4)   Public Works Director prohibition/approval.
         (a)   Bypass is prohibited, and the Public Works Director may take an
enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
            1.   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal
injury or severe property damage;
            2.   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate backup equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
            3.   The user submitted notices as required under division (B)(3)
above.
         (b)   The Public Works Director may approve an anticipated bypass,
after considering its adverse effects, if the Public Works Director determines
that it will meet the three conditions listed in division (B)(4)(a) above.
(Ord. 2751, passed 6-16-2008; Ord. 3364, passed 8-16-2021)
§ 04-07-39 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Severability. Should any section, clause, division, sentence or
provision of this chapter be held invalid for any reason, such holding or
decree shall not be construed as affecting the validity of other remaining
portions hereof, it being clear that the City Council would have adopted the
remainder of this chapter notwithstanding the invalidity of any said section,
clause, division, sentence or provision. All ordinances or parts of ordinances
inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed.
   (B)   Conflicts. All other chapters and parts of other chapters inconsistent
or conflicting with any part of this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent
of the inconsistency or conflict.
   (C)   Interim period. The period between the date of passage of this chapter
and the dates hereinafter specified shall be considered the interim period, and
this chapter shall be administered during said period in accordance with the
following provisions: until the authority (City Council) passes the initial
POTW facilities plan and the Public Works Director issues a permit/special
agreement to any affected user pursuant to that plan:
      (1)   Any user discharging into the POTW under an existing user agreement
shall be considered to be operating under a special interim agreement/permit
under this chapter; provided, however, that any provisions therein which is/are
contrary to state or federal law or allow passthrough or interference are void.
The Public Works Director shall give any such affected user notice of this
action; and
      (2)   Any other user or new user/new source who either indirectly or
directly will discharge or discharges into the POTW any pollutant or any other
substance which requires the issuance of a permit/special agreement under the
provisions and regulations of this chapter shall apply to the Public Works
Director for an interim permit/special agreement which shall be processed under
the provisions of this chapter. The Public Works Director, when considering an
application for an interim permit/special agreement, must consider and issue
and/or deny an application for a permit/special agreement subject to the city
IPDES permit, the POTW operational capacity, the existing use and expected use
and demand of that capacity.
(Ord. 3364, passed 8-16-2021)
§ 04-07-41 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect on October 1, 2021, from and
after its passage, approval and publication, as provided by law.
(Ord. 1997, passed 9-7-1993; Ord. 3364, passed 8-16-2021)
CHAPTER 9: CEMETERY
Section
   
04-09-01   Burial and disinterring requirements
   
04-09-03   Lots and spaces
   
04-09-05   Erection of monument or tombstone
   
04-09-07   Funds
   
04-09-09   Perpetual care
   
04-09-11   Limitations on care by owner
   
04-09-13   Injury to cemetery property prohibited; loitering and trespassing;
motor vehicle and parking regulations
§ 04-09-01 BURIAL AND DISINTERRING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Title to lot required. No person shall be allowed to bury their dead
in the cemetery without first obtaining title to the lot (represented by a
deed, quitclaim deed, certificate of license to inter or other document,
satisfactory to the sexton, evidencing the right of said individual to use of
the lot for burial purposes) in which they wish to bury or without furnishing
the written permission of the owner of said lot to the sexton. Such written
permission from the owner of said lot shall be filed in the office of the City
Clerk. No person shall disinter any body in said cemetery except under the
direction of the sexton. The sexton shall require the written order of the
owner of the lot in which such body is buried, which order shall be filed in
the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   Exception. Provided, however, that any mortician or surviving heir
wishing to bury a body on a lot in which there is not record of title in the
name of the deceased in the office of the City Clerk will be required to show
some relationship to the original owner as shown by the records of the office
of the Clerk. This is to be done by affidavit, under oath, and said surviving
heir shall be further required to sign an indemnity agreement to the city to
indemnify and save harmless the city from any loss, damage, costs and expenses
which the city may thereafter suffer, incur to be put to, pay or lay out by
reason of such burial.
   (C)   Vaults or liners.
      (1)   All caskets laid in graves opened in the cemetery shall be placed
either in a concrete vault, a metal vault or in a reinforced concrete liner, in
accordance with specifications for such vaults or liners as shall be determined
from time to time by the Council.
      (2)   The sexton shall not permit any casket to be placed in any grave
opened in the cemetery until all the requirements of this chapter have been
fulfilled.
(Ord. 1159, passed 3-17-1969; Ord. 2873, passed 4-4-2011; Ord. 3122, passed 12-
18-2017)
§ 04-09-03 LOTS AND SPACES.
   (A)   Record of lot sales.
      (1)   Both the sexton and the Clerk shall keep a cemetery record in
numerical order with an alphabet index of all deeds, transfers, orders,
certificates of license to inter and permits provided for by this chapter and
shall designate the lot sold and the portion of any lot occupied and the
portion vacated by disinterment, by coloring or otherwise, indicating the same
on the plat which is to be a part of said record. Said record shall also
indicate the name, age, color and sex of the deceased, the date of death, the
name of undertaker employed and date of burial.
      (2)   Any person desiring to transfer his or her ownership in a lot in
said cemetery shall make application to the Clerk who shall assist such person
in preparation of a request for issuance of certificate of license to inter to
new owner/licensee. The city will charge a fee for said transfer, as set by
resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   Application for purchase. Any person desiring to purchase a lot in
said cemetery shall make application to the Clerk, who shall procure for such
person a certificate of license to inter signed by the Mayor and countersigned
by the Clerk, under the seal of the city, specifying the person to whom the
same is sold is the owner of the lot described therein for the sole purpose of
interment. Such certificate shall vest in such person, his or her heirs or
assigns, a title in and to such lot for the sole purpose of interment under the
regulations of the Council. Such lot shall be exempt from taxation and
execution, but no certificate shall be issued as herein provided until the
price of lot so conveyed is fully paid.
   (C)   Limit of ownership. No person shall own either directly or indirectly
more than 12 unoccupied burial spaces in said cemetery at any one time. A
burial space shall be four feet by 12 feet.
   (D)   City to establish specific regulations. The City Council shall, upon
petition by the Clerk, establish fees, purchase prices and space regulation for
cemetery lots by resolution.
(Ord. 1159, passed 3-17-1969; Ord. 1357, passed 5-6-1975; Ord. 2873, passed 4-
4-2011; Ord. 3122, passed 12-18-2017)
§ 04-09-05 ERECTION OF MONUMENT OR TOMBSTONE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or allow to be placed any
monument or tombstone on any lot in said cemetery except by permission of the
sexton, and in accordance with the requirements of this chapter and of any
additional rules and regulations, which may be adopted by Council resolution,
from time to time. Except where specifically allowed by this chapter and
approved by the sexton, it shall be unlawful for any person to place any
footstone, fencing, curbing, retaining wall or cornerstone around or upon any
lot in said cemetery. All monuments and tombstones on any lots or graves shall
be based with granite stone, and no monument or tombstone shall be composed of
wood, tin, fabricated stone or other fabricated material unless approved by the
sexton. In addition to more particular limitations which may apply in specific
areas of the cemetery, no headstone, monument or other marker may exceed 38
inches in height as measured from ground level. All headstones, monuments or
other markers must be “wet set” into the concrete foundation using string-line
and lot markers for placement guidance.
   (B)   All monuments must be set by a monument company which has filed with
the sexton, at or before the time of installation, a current liability
insurance policy on each monument with a policy limit equal to or greater than
the minimum designated by Council resolution. All monuments must have a cement
foundation, providing a minimum four-inch concrete border surrounding said
monument.
   (C)   All foundations must be set at ground level.
   (D)   Maximum foundation sizes are as follows: single space: 48 inches by 24
inches; and double space: 96 inches by 24 inches.
   (E)   Vases are permitted in all areas where they are not specifically
prohibited in this code or by the sexton. The sexton shall have authority to
designate particular types or styles of vases to be placed on any mausoleum, as
well as the size, format, pattern and font size of any niche or crypt faceplate
contained in a mausoleum, to ensure uniformity among faceplates. No open can
holes are permitted.
   (F)   All monuments must be approved by the sexton before installation, and
it is recommended that such monuments be approved by the sexton prior to
purchase.
   (G)   Section specific requirements are as follows.
      (1)   In Block 58 and Block 71, the maximum foundation size shall be 36
inches by 24 inches. Only flat monuments are permitted. Flat vases are
permitted. No upright vases are permitted.
      (2)   In the southern half of Block 69, the first four rows adjacent to
Illinois Avenue must be flat monuments. In the northern half of Block 69, the
first eight rows adjacent to Illinois Avenue must be flat monuments. All vases
in Block 69 must be flat when turned down. All other lots in Block 69 may have
upright monuments and vases.
   (H)   On standard burials, an outer container (vault) is required. In
addition to traditional concrete vaults, Vantage Graveliner or similar
polypropylene vaults, may be used for this purpose. Cremation burials do not
require a vault.
   (I)   The city is not responsible for maintenance of, wear and tear or any
other damage to markers, monuments or foundations.
(Ord. 2873, passed 4-4-2011; Ord. 2971, passed 6-16-2014; Ord. 3513, passed 9-
19-2023)
§ 04-09-07 FUNDS.
   (A)   Cemetery Capital Fund.
      (1)   (a)   There is hereby created a Cemetery Capital Fund to which one-
tenth of all monies received for spaces and permits, except as hereinafter
provided, shall be apportioned, together with all donations made to said fund,
and all monies apportioned to said fund shall be invested by the City Treasurer
in investments approved by Council resolution as provided by Idaho Code § 50-
1013.
         (b)   For a period of three years starting October 1, 2025, one-tenth
of the Cemetery perpetual care fee will be deposited into the Cemetery Capital
Fund. This will sunset after September 30, 2028. This is to help pay for the
expansion of the cemetery and permanent structures.
      (2)   The interest and income from investments of the money in said funds
shall be credited to and be part of the Cemetery Capital Fund. The monies in
said funds shall be expended only upon the order and under the direction of the
Mayor and Council, and no expenditure shall be made from such fund except for
the preserving, protection, ornamenting, improving and laying out of the
cemetery grounds, all of such improvements to be of a permanent improvement
nature.
   (B)   Cemetery Fund. There is hereby created a Cemetery Fund, to which
three-fourths of all money received from the sale of spaces and permits, except
as hereinafter provided, shall be apportioned.
   (C)   Cemetery Lot Perpetual Care Fund.
      (1)   There is hereby created a Cemetery Lot Perpetual Care Fund to which
all monies received for the sale of lots and for perpetual care, as provided
for in this chapter, shall be apportioned, and the money apportioned to said
fund shall be kept separate and apart from other monies of said city.
      (2)   The City Treasurer shall invest the money in the Cemetery Lot
Perpetual Care Fund in investments approved by Council resolution as provided
by Idaho Code § 50-1013.
   (D)   Interest income. It shall be the duty of the City Treasurer to collect
at the proper time all interest that may be due on investments of the cemetery
funds, and to report said collections to the Clerk, who shall apportion such
interest to the respective fund.
(Ord. 3447, passed 8-18-2022; Ord. 3700, passed 7-21-2025)
§ 04-09-09 PERPETUAL CARE.
   (A)   Certificate. In any instance where the cemetery lots have been
heretofore sold in the cemetery on which certificate for perpetual care has not
heretofore been issued and on which the owner of said lot may now or hereafter
become entitled to receive a certificate of perpetual care, it shall be the
duty of the City Clerk upon receipt of payment of any sum of money for
perpetual care on any lot in said cemetery, as hereinafter provided, to issue a
certificate to the person entitled in the following form.
   License No.                  
   CERTIFICATE OF LICENSE TO INTER AND FOR PERPETUAL CARE
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that the CITY OF CALDWELL, IDAHO, an Idaho municipal corporation of 411 Blaine
Street, Caldwell, Idaho 83605 (“Licensor”), for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency
of which is hereby acknowledged, and pursuant to the laws of the state and the Caldwell City Code, does hereby
grant unto LICENSEE, identified more particularly below, a license for the use of SPACE(S)                  ,
LOT                  , of BLOCK                  , of the CALDWELL CEMETERY (otherwise known as Canyon Hill
Cemetery), as platted and filed and recorded in the office of the Recorder of Canyon County, State of Idaho,
for the sole and limited purpose of interment.
            LICENSEE:
Name:                  
                  Home Address:                  
                  Telephone number:                  
      TO HAVE AND TO HOLD the same unto said Licensee and his or her heirs and assigns forever, for the sole
and limited purpose of interment, subject to such regulations as the City Council of the City of Caldwell may,
from time to time, establish.
      Provided, that in the event that the above described Cemetery space(s)/crypt(s)/niche(s) is (are) not
used for interment purposes within 50 years from the date hereof, then Licensee’s license for use of said
space(s)/crypt(s)/niche(s) shall expire and be immediately and automatically revoked, and that any real
property rights deemed to have been conveyed hereby, if any, shall automatically revert to and vest absolutely
in fee simple in the City of Caldwell at that time, without notice.
      A portion of the above consideration, to-wit, the sum of $                  DOLLARS, shall be and hereby
is allotted and apportioned to the “Cemetery Lot Perpetual Care Fund” of the City of Caldwell, Idaho, and in
consideration of said sum the City of Caldwell hereby agrees to forever and perpetually care for, irrigate and
attend to, in a good and sufficient manner, under such regulation as the City Council of the City of Caldwell
may, from time to time, establish, said space(s)/crypt(s)/niche(s) and property above described. NOTE: if this
Certificate is issued in connection with a space or spaces for which funds have already been collected for
this purpose, no additional funds shall be collected for purposes of perpetual care.
         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, The City of Caldwell has caused these presents to be subscribed by its Mayor and
attested by its Clerk and its corporate seal to be hereunto affixed this                  day of
                 , 20                  .
City of Caldwell, Idaho (Licensor)
Mayor
Attestation: _________________________
City Clerk
 
   (B)   Previous owners have right to privileges of perpetual care. The owner
or owners of any and all lots in the cemetery purchased without perpetual care
may have the right of perpetual care as provided in this chapter by paying to
the Clerk a fee for said perpetual care, as set by resolution of the City
Council.
   (C)   Owners credited for perpetual care. The City Clerk is authorized and
directed to give credit to the owner of any lot in the City Cemetery on the
cost of perpetual care of such lot in the cemetery, as heretofore fixed by the
ordinances of the city, of all sums shown by the records of said city to have
heretofore been paid for the upkeep and care of said lot, and to give such
credit at such time hereafter as the owner of such lot shall pay to the Clerk,
the balance of the cost of such perpetual care for said lot, as fixed by the
ordinances of the city.
   (D)   Owners exchange unused lots for perpetual care. Any person now owning
any unused portion of lots in said cemetery heretofore sold and conveyed, and
desiring to procure perpetual care on the use portion of said lots, may receive
credit on costs of such perpetual care as determined by ordinance upon
reconveyance to the city of the unused portion of said lots of such amount as
shall be determined by the Council.
   (E)   Owners issued license to inter expiring or reverting to city after a
period of less than 50 years. If the owner of any cemetery lot holds a license
to inter, deed or other document or instrument conveying a right to use of said
lot for burial purposes, which document or instrument contains a clause
providing for an expiration or reversion of that right to the city following a
period of a term less than 50 years, said clause shall be read by the city as
if amended to provide for a period of 50 years before said expiration or
reversion is deemed to be effective; provided, however, that if the license to
inter, deed or other document or instrument conveying a right to use of said
lot for burial purposes provides for an extension of the original period upon
written request by the owner, such extension to the original period shall be
granted only if the original period plus the extension would have provided for
a total period longer than 50 years.
(Ord. 1159, passed 3-17-1969; Ord. 2873, passed 4-4-2011; Ord. 3122, passed 12-
18-2017; Ord. 3498, passed 4-18-2023)
§ 04-09-11 LIMITATIONS ON CARE BY OWNER.
   (A)   Planting. Except as specifically set forth in this division (A), no
trees, shrubbery, flowers or other plants of any kind may be planted in the
cemetery by any person or entity other than the city. The planting of shrubbery
will be permitted by private parties only by permission of the sexton in Blocks
1 through 65 of the cemetery. Shrubbery planting is prohibited except by the
city in Blocks 66 through 70 and in all future blocks added to the cemetery.
   (B)   Flowers and decorations on graves. Artificial and fresh cut flowers
are permitted throughout the year so long as they do not restrict grounds
maintenance. All other decorations (including, but not limited to, tubs and
flowerpots, balloons, pinwheels, windsocks, wind chimes, toys, stuffed animals,
planter boxes, flags, pictures and the like) are not permitted, except during
the period commencing one week before the designated holidays listed below, and
ending one week thereafter: Valentine’s Day, Easter, Mother’s Day, Memorial
Day, Father’s Day, Veterans Day, Halloween, Thanksgiving and Christmas. All
decorations not expressly permitted above that are placed or left on graves
more than a week after a designated holiday may be removed and disposed of at
any time by cemetery personnel. At all times, the sexton shall have the
authority to remove any decorations that he or she deems inappropriate,
unsightly or messy, that are found by the sexton not to be in harmony with the
overall development of the cemetery or that are found by the sexton to be of
such a type as to interfere with the city’s ability to maintain the cemetery.
   (C)   Flowers around mausoleum buildings. With respect to mausoleum
buildings, artificial and fresh cut flowers are allowed at all times in
designated areas. All flowers may be removed by cemetery personnel when they
become unsightly. The size of floral arrangements should not encroach on
adjoining crypts and niches. Embellishment of vases, crypts or niche fronts
with photographs, cards, toys, ribbons, pinwheels and the like is not
permitted, and any such items may be removed by cemetery personnel.
(Ord. 2873, passed 4-4-2011; Ord. 3513, passed 9-19-2023)
§ 04-09-13 INJURY TO CEMETERY PROPERTY PROHIBITED; LOITERING AND TRESPASSING;
MOTOR VEHICLE AND PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Property damage. It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or
carry away or break, deface, destroy or otherwise injure any monument,
tombstone, tree, shrub, plant, vase, railing, gate or other property, article
or thing belonging or placed or erected within the cemetery or to open, disturb
or molest any grave therein. This shall not prohibit acts by duly authorized
cemetery officers and employees or public officials in carrying out their
duties.
   (B)   Application of city laws. All provisions of this code now in force or
hereafter enacted, relating to and defining public offenses in the city, shall,
insofar as the same shall be applicable, be in full force and effect in the
city cemetery.
   (C)   Unlawful entry. It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, other
than duly authorized officers, officials or employees of the city, to enter
into or be upon the cemetery grounds of the city during the time beginning one-
half hour after sunset and ending one-half hour before sunrise of any day
without first obtaining the permission of the sexton or city officer in charge
of said cemetery.
   (D)   Trespass, loitering; exceptions. It shall be unlawful for any person
to loiter or trespass upon lots and graves of the city cemetery or for the
parent or guardian of any child under the age of 16 to permit such child to be
within said cemetery grounds unless accompanied by an adult person. Provided,
nothing herein shall be construed to prohibit any person having lawful business
in the cemetery in connection with improvement thereof or persons visiting the
graves of relatives or friends from being in said cemetery in accordance with
the law and any rules or policies governing the cemetery.
   (E)   Speeding. It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle in
the cemetery faster than ten mph.
   (F)   Operation of vehicles and parking.
      (1)   No person shall drive or move any vehicle within the cemetery
except over a roadway open for vehicular traffic, or obstruct any path or
driveway within the cemetery open to vehicular traffic. No person shall use the
cemetery grounds or any driveway therein as a public thoroughfare or drive any
vehicle through said grounds except for purposes of making deliveries in the
cemetery, attending a graveside service or burial service or visiting any
gravesite.
      (2)   The cemetery sexton and his or her assistants are hereby authorized
to direct all vehicular traffic and to direct the parking or standing of all
vehicles in said cemetery. No person shall disobey or disregard the directions
of the sexton relating to the movement or standing of all vehicles within said
cemetery.
(Ord. 2873, passed 4-4-2011)
CHAPTER 11: AIRPORT RULES AND REGULATIONS; MINIMUM STANDARDS
Section
   
04-11-01   Adoption of the rules and regulations of the Caldwell Executive
Airport and minimum standards
   
04-11-03   Penalties
§ 04-11-01 ADOPTION OF THE RULES AND REGULATIONS OF THE CALDWELL EXECUTIVE
AIRPORT AND MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   The City Council has adopted the “Rules and Regulations of the Caldwell
Executive Airport,” which rules and regulations shall govern the conduct of all
persons and activities within, at or on the airport, and may amend said rules
or adopt new rules and regulations, by resolution, from time to time. The City
Council has also adopted minimum standards, which set forth the standards and
requirements for commercial and noncommercial aeronautical activities at the
airport. Said minimum standards may also be amended from time to time by
resolution of the City Council. Copies of the current version of both of these
documents are available at the City Hall and the Caldwell Executive Airport.
(Ord. 2901, passed 2-21-2012; Ord. 3410, passed 12-6-2022)
§ 04-11-03 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Violators of the “Rules and Regulations of the Caldwell Executive
Airport” are subject to civil and criminal penalties as prescribed by the
authorities of the city. Any violations for which penalties are not prescribed
shall be considered misdemeanor violations and shall be punished by fine and/or
imprisonment, up to, but not exceeding, the maximum penalties set forth in
Idaho Code §§ 18-113 and 50-302(1), as amended.
   (B)   In addition to any penalties otherwise provided, any person operating
or landing any aircraft in violation of the rules and regulations, or refusing
to comply therewith, may be promptly removed or ejected from the airport by or
under the authority of the airport manager and, upon the order of the airport
manager, may be deprived of the further use of the airport and its facilities
for such a length of time as may be required to ensure the safeguarding of the
same and the public and its interest therein.
(Ord. 2901, passed 2-21-2012; Ord. 3410, passed 12-6-2022)
CHAPTER 13: TREES
[Reserved]
(Repealed by Ord. 2437, passed 10-21-2002)
Cross-reference:
   Similar provisions, see
Article 8 of the zoning regulations
CHAPTER 15: DUTCH ELM DISEASE
[Reserved]
(Repealed by Ord. 2786, passed 8-17-2009)
Cross-reference:
   Similar provisions, see §
10-08-03 of the zoning regulations
CHAPTER 17: IRRIGATION UTILITY
Section
   
04-17-01   Department
   
04-17-03   Definitions
   
04-17-05   Applicability
   
04-17-07   Powers and authority of city
   
04-17-09   Water connections, construction regulations
   
04-17-11   Restrictions on water use
   
04-17-13   Upkeep of service pipes and fixtures
   
04-17-15   Irrigation assessments
   
04-17-17   Shutting off the water supply
   
04-17-19   Failure of water supply
   
04-17-21   Prohibited acts
   
04-17-23   Saving clause
   
04-17-25   Penalties
§ 04-17-01 DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Established. There is hereby established an Irrigation Department
which shall consist of such personnel as may be provided by the Mayor and the
City Council and the operation of which shall be under the direction of the
Water Superintendent.
   (B)   Responsibility. It shall be the responsibility of all members of the
Irrigation Department to operate and maintain all city irrigation systems and
take every possible precaution to ensure the safety and health of the public
and comply with applicable state and federal law relevant to the delivery of
irrigation water.
(Ord. 2504, passed 7-6-2004)
§ 04-17-03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. Refers to the City of Caldwell, Canyon County, Idaho, or its
authorized or designated agent, representative or deputy thereof.
   CITY IRRIGATION SERVICE LINE. The portion of an irrigation service line that
runs from its connection with the city irrigation main to and including the
corporation stop installed in the service line. The IRRIGATION SERVICE LINE is
owned and maintained by the city and will usually be installed within the
limits of the public right-of-way or utility easement.
   CITY IRRIGATION SYSTEM. Includes all components and facilities of the
irrigation system that is owned, operated and/or maintained by the city to
provide irrigation water supply.
   IRRIGATION MAIN. Any portion of the city irrigation system used for the
purpose of transportation and/or distribution of irrigation water to serve more
than one irrigation service line or user.
   IRRIGATION WATER. Refers to water used for the purpose of irrigation in a
beneficial manner, regardless of the water source.
   MASTER IRRIGATION PLAN. A plan that includes any document which the city has
accepted or may accept by official action of the City Council which describes
or otherwise indicates an overall view of proposed future irrigation needs,
irrigation main sizing and/or irrigation main spacing.
   OWNER. Refers to any property owner served by the city irrigation system.
   PRIVATE IRRIGATION SERVICE LINE. The irrigation service line from the city
corporation stop to and throughout the property being served.
   PRIVATE IRRIGATION SYSTEM. Any irrigation system that is not owned, operated
and maintained by the city.
   PROPERTY. Refers to all property, whether privately or publicly owned,
within the duly adopted boundaries of the city irrigation system.
(Ord. 2504, passed 7-6-2004)
§ 04-17-05 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all property within the
corporate limits of the city and within the duly adopted boundaries of the city
irrigation system, including all property owned or occupied by the United
States of America, the state and the county.
(Ord. 2504, passed 7-6-2004)
§ 04-17-07 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF CITY.
   The city, through its authorized representative bearing proper credentials
and identification, shall be permitted at proper and reasonable hours of the
day to enter all properties to which irrigation water is furnished from the
city irrigation system for testing or for any other purpose necessary for the
proper administration of the city irrigation system in accordance with
provisions of this chapter. Also, the city, through its authorized
representative bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be
permitted to enter all private properties through which the city holds an
easement for the purpose of inspection, observation, repair, maintenance or any
other purpose or function reasonably related to the city irrigation system. All
entry and subsequent work, if any, within said easement shall be done in a
workmanlike manner.
(Ord. 2504, passed 7-6-2004)
§ 04-17-09 WATER CONNECTIONS, CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Boundaries. The City Council shall establish by ordinance the
boundaries of the city irrigation system, and may, from time to time, contract,
extend or enlarge the boundaries of said system by ordinance. A copy of any
such ordinance duly certified to be correct by the City Clerk shall be recorded
in the office of the County Recorder.
   (B)   Property connections. Each property within the duly described
boundaries of the city irrigation system may be connected to the irrigation
main through a city irrigation service line, upon compliance with the terms of
this chapter and any policies adopted pursuant thereto.
   (C)   Application for service connection and permit to use water. An
application for city irrigation service shall be made by the owner of the
property to the Water Superintendent or other assigned officer. The application
shall contain a full, true and accurate statement of the size of the connection
desired, a description of the premises upon which such connection is to be
made, the full name of all owners and shall otherwise conform to the rules and
regulations provided for the city irrigation system. No water shall be
introduced into any connection unless a permit has first been approved by the
Water Superintendent or assigned officer, and all fees set forth in the rate
schedule adopted by resolution of the City Council have been paid. The
applicant shall have the responsibility of determining and/or providing the
appropriate water rights.
   (D)   Private irrigation service line. All materials and workmanship used in
the installation of private water service lines shall conform to city
specifications and codes. The furnishing of all labor and materials shall be
the sole responsibility of the owner.
   (E)   No connections outside the city. Requests for water line connections
outside the city limits are governed by the “Service Connection Policy Outside
the City Limits,” which policy shall be adopted by resolution of the City
Council.
   (F)   Extension of irrigation mains and irrigation main fee.
      (1)   All proposed extensions of the irrigation mains to service
undeveloped areas within the boundaries of the city irrigation system shall
comply with existing policies, specifications, master plans or requirements
established by the City Engineer. The plans for all extensions to the city
irrigation mains shall be prepared under the direction of and signed by a
registered professional engineer as per the licensing requirements of state
law, and three copies of said plans shall be filed with the city. In approving
a plan for extension of irrigation mains, the city reserves the right and
discretion to establish other conditions and requirements such as a special
permit fee, rights-of-way limits, sequence of construction, time limits for
having existing service disrupted, the filing of a performance bond and other
similar measures as may be required to protect the public. No work shall
commence on any extension of irrigation mains until the extension project has
been included within the boundaries of the city irrigation system and written
approval of design plans have been provided by the City Engineer. A permit
shall not be issued until all applicable fees have been paid.
      (2)   All irrigation main extensions and appurtenances shall be
constructed at the expense of the applicant by a qualified contractor in
accordance with city specifications and subject to conditions and fees
established by the city.
      (3)   The city shall charge an irrigation main extension fee on all new
development that will be provided irrigation service by the city irrigation
system. The amount of the fee and the methods of derivation shall be in
accordance with the rate schedule adopted by resolution of the City Council.
   (G)   Construction methods and materials. The materials and methods used for
construction of city irrigation service lines, private irrigation service
lines, irrigation mains or city irrigation system appurtenances shall conform
to the requirements of all codes and specifications as may be adopted by the
City Council. The city may reject any materials or workmanship for cause, and
upon such order, the rejected materials shall be removed and replaced with
approved materials. The “2015 Idaho Standards for Public Works Construction,”
as supplemented by the “Caldwell Municipal Irrigation District Supplemental
Specifications,” dated November 2, 2015, are hereby adopted as the official
standards to govern design, construction and testing of pressure irrigation
facilities for the city irrigation utility. The City Engineer is hereby
directed to publish said standards and make available to the public for a fee
adopted by resolution of City Council.
   (H)   Illegal connections.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make or cause to be made any
connection with the city irrigation system or to introduce or cause to be
introduced water from the city irrigation system into any connection made
therewith unless a permit has been first duly issued for such purpose by the
Building Inspector in compliance and conformity with the provisions of this
chapter and the rules and regulations of the city that are now or may hereafter
be established therefor; or to cause a connection to become noncompliant with
the provisions of this chapter and the rules and regulations of the city that
are now or may hereafter be established; or to interfere with or injure any
line appurtenance or any portion of the city irrigation system. Violation of
this provision shall be a misdemeanor.
      (2)   The city, by and through the Building Inspector, shall give notice
in writing to the owner and/or occupant of any premises connected to and served
by the city irrigation system in all cases in which said connections are
illegal. Said notice shall state the violation and require that the violations
be cured within ten days from notice thereof.
      (3)   In the event that said illegal connection continues beyond the ten-
day period, the city is authorized to discontinue irrigation service to said
premises without further notice and until said illegal connection is remedied
and all costs of the city associated therewith and fines have been paid.
      (4)   A violation of this provision is a misdemeanor.
   (I)   Fees.
      (1)   Service connection fees. In addition to any inspection fees,
irrigation main extension fees and impact fees, the applicant shall be required
to pay a service connection fee. The amount of the service connection fee shall
be in accordance with the rate schedule adopted by resolution of the City
Council. A copy of current service connection fees for various line sizes will
be on file in the Water Superintendent’s office.
      (2)   Impact fees and base charges. The city shall have authority to
assess the developer and/or landowner fees in addition to the aforementioned
fees. These additional fees are termed impact and capital improvement base fees
and are for the purpose of providing a more equitable distribution of city
irrigation system costs relating to such items as water supply development,
storage, transmission lines and other off-site improvements and shall be in
accordance with the rate schedule approved by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 2504, passed 7-6-2004; Ord. 3020, passed 11-16-2015)
§ 04-17-11 RESTRICTIONS ON WATER USE.
   No person supplied with water from the city irrigation system will be
entitled to use it for any other purpose than stated in the permit, nor shall
water be supplied to other properties, or allowed to be taken off the premises
with the intent of bypassing the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2504, passed 7-6-2004)
§ 04-17-13 UPKEEP OF SERVICE PIPES AND FIXTURES.
   All service pipes and fixtures on private property are the responsibility of
the property owner and shall be kept in good repair and protected from freezing
at the property owner’s expense. The property owner shall be responsible for
all damages resulting from leaks or breaks in service pipes and fixtures. Water
will not be furnished to any private irrigation service line or system where
there is a leak in the service piping or in a fixture. If a leak is discovered,
the irrigation service may be discontinued immediately until all leaks have
been repaired.
(Ord. 2504, passed 7-6-2004)
§ 04-17-15 IRRIGATION ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   The annual irrigation assessment shall be established by the City
Council pursuant to state law.
   (B)   All assessments, fees and charges received and collected under the
authority of this chapter shall be deposited and credited to the Irrigation
Fund, and all expenditures therefrom shall be dedicated to the operation,
maintenance, replacement, upgrade and extension of the city irrigation system.
   (C)   The levying of the annual assessment, processing of payments received
and the disposition of delinquent accounts shall be in accordance with state
law.
(Ord. 2504, passed 7-6-2004)
§ 04-17-17 SHUTTING OFF THE WATER SUPPLY.
   The city reserves the right at any time without notice to shut off the water
supply for repairs, extensions or any other reason, and the city shall not be
responsible for damaged pipes or fixtures, or any other damage resulting from
the shutting off of the water.
(Ord. 2504, passed 7-6-2004)
§ 04-17-19 FAILURE OF WATER SUPPLY.
   The city shall not be liable under any circumstance for a deficiency or a
failure in the supply of water whether by the shutting off of the water to make
repairs or connections, or for any cause whatsoever.
(Ord. 2504, passed 7-6-2004)
§ 04-17-21 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Malicious or willful waste of water is a prohibited act. It shall be
unlawful for any irrigation water user to waste water or allow it to be wasted
by imperfect water stops, valves, leaky pipes or improper adjustment of
sprinklers, or to permit the malicious or willful consumption of water for no
beneficial use.
   (B)   The city will make a visual determination of where water has been
wasted and shall notify the user of that determination. It shall then be the
user’s responsibility to make the necessary repairs, or to institute actions
that will correct that situation within 30 days of the city’s notification to
the user. All costs incurred, including the cost of wasted water and any
repairs, shall be the responsibility of the user.
(Ord. 2504, passed 7-6-2004)
§ 04-17-23 SAVING CLAUSE.
   If any section, division, sentence or provision of this chapter or the
application thereof to any particular circumstance shall ever be invalid or
unenforceable, such holding shall not affect the remainder hereof, which shall
continue in full force and effect and be applicable to all circumstances to
which it may validly apply.
(Ord. 2504, passed 7-6-2004)
§ 04-17-25 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall
be served by the city with a written notice stating the nature of the violation
and provided a specified maximum period of time, said period not to exceed 30
days, for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the
period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (A) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, on
conviction thereof, shall be subject to fine and/or imprisonment, up to, but
not exceeding, the maximum penalties set forth in Idaho Code § 50-302, as
amended. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the city
by reason of such violation.
(Ord. 2504, passed 7-6-2004; Ord. 2669, passed 2-20-2007)
CHAPTER 19: EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL/GRADING
Section
   
04-19-01      Purpose and intent
   
04-19-03      Applicability
   
04-19-05      Definitions
   
04-19-07      Permits
   
04-19-07-01   Permits required
   
04-19-07-03   Fees required
   
04-19-07-05   Fees
   
04-19-07-07   Fee refunds
   
04-19-07-09   Failure to correct violation; permit revocation
   
04-19-07-11   Expiration of permit by limitation
   
04-19-07-13   Permits denied
   
04-19-07-15   Additional causes for permit revocation
   
04-19-07-17   Inspection of work
   
04-19-09      Stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP)
   
04-19-11      General requirements and prohibitions
   
04-19-13      Inspections
   
04-19-15      Enforcement
   
04-19-17      Severability
   
04-19-19      Effective date of chapter
§ 04-19-01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this chapter is to safeguard persons, protect property,
prevent damage to the environment and promote the public welfare by guiding,
regulating and controlling the design, construction, use and maintenance of any
development or other activity which disturbs or breaks the topsoil or results
in the movement of earth on one acre or more of land located within the
corporate limits of the city. This chapter will ensure that stormwater controls
are utilized where any construction activities are altering the land.
(Ord. 2921, passed 12-3-2012; Ord. 3677, passed 3-3-2025)
§ 04-19-03 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all construction activity and all land
disturbing activity, directly or indirectly associated with construction
projects, and all persons engaged in construction activity and land disturbing
activity, directly or indirectly associated with construction projects, which
activity or project involves one acre or more of land located within the
corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 2921, passed 12-3-2012)
§ 04-19-05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and educational
practices, maintenance procedures and other management practices to prevent or
reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to stormwater,
receiving waters or stormwater conveyance systems. BMPs also include treatment
practices, operating procedures and practices to control site runoff, spillage
or leaks, sludge or water disposal or drainage from raw materials storage.
   CLEARING. Any activity that removes the vegetative surface cover.
   CONSTRUCTION GENERAL PERMIT (CGP). A permit issued by the State Department
of Environmental Quality that regulates stormwater and certain non-stormwater
discharges from construction activities.
   DRAINAGE WAY. Any channel that conveys surface runoff throughout the site.
   EROSION CONTROL. Measures that prevent erosion.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL (ESC) PLAN. A set of plans indicating the
specific measures and sequencing to be used controlling sediment and erosion on
a development site before, during and after construction.
   GRADING. Excavation or fill of material, including the resulting conditions
thereof.
   PERIMETER CONTROL. A barrier that prevents sediment from leaving a site
either by filtering sediment-laden runoff or diverting it to a sediment trap or
basin.
   PHASING. Clearing a parcel of land in distinct phases, with the
stabilization of each phase before the clearing of the next.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON. Any foreperson, superintendent, project manager or other
person with operational control over site activities and day-to-day operational
control over plan requirements and permit conditions at the site of any
construction activity. The responsible person shall possess a current and valid
RESPONSIBLE PERSON certificate of training or equivalent.
   SEDIMENT CONTROL. Measures that prevent eroded sediment from leaving the
site.
   SITE. A parcel of land, or a contiguous combination thereof, where grading
work is performed as a single unified operation.
   SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. A permit issued by the municipality for the
construction or alteration of ground improvements and structures for the
control of erosion, runoff and grading, when such construction or alteration
involves one or more acres of land.
   STABILIZATION. The use of practices that prevent exposed soil from eroding.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). A site-specific document that
outlines how a construction site will manage its stormwater runoff to prevent
water pollution.
   WATERCOURSE. Any body of water, including, but not limited to, lakes, ponds,
rivers, streams and bodies of water.
   WATERWAY. A channel that directs surface runoff to a watercourse, or to the
public storm drain.
(Ord. 2921, passed 12-3-2012; Ord. 3677, passed 3-3-2025)
§ 04-19-07 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall be granted a grading permit for land disturbing
activity that would require the uncovering of one acre or more without a
stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) approved by the City Stormwater
Division. All development sites larger than one acre or part of a development
plan larger than one acre shall also submit a copy of their SWPPP to the City
Stormwater Division and shall file construction general permit (CGP) coverage
through the State Department of Environmental Quality.
   (B)   No grading permit is required for any emergency activity, which is
immediately necessary for the protection of life, property or natural
resources. The City Public Works Department shall be notified within 24 hours
of the initiation of the emergency activity.
   (C)   Each application shall bear the name(s) and address(es) of the owner
or developer of the site, and of any contractor retained by the applicant,
together with the name of the applicant’s responsible person, and shall be
accompanied by a filing fee to be set by resolution of the City Council.
   (D)   Each application shall include a statement that any land clearing,
construction or development involving the movement of earth shall be in
accordance with the SWPPP.
   (E)   The City Stormwater Division will review each application for a
grading permit to determine its conformance with the provisions of this
chapter. Within ten working days after receiving a complete application, the
City Stormwater Division shall, in writing:
      (1)   Notify the applicant that the Department has reviewed the permit
application for compliance; and
      (2)   Approve the permit application or disapprove the permit application
indicating the deficiencies and the procedure for submitting a revised
application and/or submission.
(Ord. 2921, passed 12-3-2012; Ord. 2923, passed 4-15-2013; Ord. 3384, passed
12-6-2021; Ord. 3677, passed 3-3-2025)
§ 04-19-07-01 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to perform any
construction activity, including, but not limited to, all land disturbing
activity, directly or indirectly associated with construction projects, which
activity or project involves one acre or more of land located within the
corporate limits of the city, without first obtaining a grading permit from the
City Stormwater Division and construction general permit (CGP) coverage from
the State Department of Environmental Quality.
(Ord. 2921, passed 12-3-2012; Ord. 3384, passed 12-6-2021; Ord. 3677, passed 3-
3-2025)
§ 04-19-07-03 FEES REQUIRED.
   The city permits required under this chapter require fees to be paid at the
time of issuance of a permit. Said fees shall be set by resolution of the City
Council.
(Ord. 2923, passed 4-15-2013; Ord. 3384, passed 12-6-2021; Ord. 3677, passed 3-
3-2025)
§ 04-19-07-05 FEES.
   Except as otherwise specified all fees are established by resolution of the
Council.
(Ord. 2921, passed 12-3-2012)
§ 04-19-07-07 FEE REFUNDS.
   (A)   In the event construction activity has not commenced on an approved
permit application, and the applicant requests cancellation of said permit
while it is still valid, fees paid for the permits associated with the
construction of improvement to any work regulated under this chapter shall be
refundable at a rate of 80% of the original permit.
   (B)   Refund requests must be made in writing and shall be accompanied by
the original permit. Refunds cannot be granted for plan review fees or for
permits which are expired or null and void for any reason.
(Ord. 2921, passed 12-3-2012)
§ 04-19-07-09 FAILURE TO CORRECT VIOLATION; PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   In case of violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, or
other regulation of the city related to any permitted project, by any person
holding a required permit and after such violator has been given written notice
of such violation and said licensee has failed to correct the violation within
the time specified in the notice, the Public Works Director, or his or her
authorized representative, may declare the permit revoked and notify the
permittee. Any permittee who has had their permit so revoked shall not be
issued another permit until said violation has been corrected and formal
application made as provided in this §
04-19-07.
   (B)   Any revocation may be appealed in writing to the Council within 15
days from the date the notice of the revocation is given to the permittee. If
the requested corrective action is not taken, the city may take the action
necessary to correct the violation leading to said revocation and shall charge
all costs incurred therein to the violator and/or to the property upon which
said violation occurred.
(Ord. 2923, passed 4-15-2013; Ord. 3677, passed 3-3-2025)
§ 04-19-07-11 EXPIRATION OF PERMIT BY LIMITATION.
   Every permit issued shall become invalid unless the work on the site
authorized by such permit is commenced within 180 days after its issuance, or
if the work authorized on the site by such permit is suspended or abandoned for
a period of 180 days after the work is commenced. The Public Works Director is
authorized to grant, in writing, one or more extensions of time, for periods
not more than 180 days each. The extension shall be requested in writing and
justifiable cause shall also be demonstrated.
(Ord. 2921, passed 12-3-2012; Ord. 3677, passed 3-3-2025)
§ 04-19-07-13 PERMITS DENIED.
   The Public Works Director, City Engineer or their designee may withhold
issuance of any permit to any owners, firm or corporation who has outstanding
notices of violation or outstanding permit fees on permits previously issued
and has failed to take the directed corrective action. Issuance of new permits
may not be withheld if an appeal from the Public Works Director’s, City
Engineer’s action has been filed for consideration by the City Council. Appeal
of the Public Works Director’s, City Engineer’s action may be made to the City
Council. Such an appeal must be made in writing to the City Council whereby the
appellant will provide the reason(s) why he, she or they have not corrected the
substandard work or paid the outstanding fee. Appeal must be made within 15
days of the issuance of the notice of violation or prior to the nullification
of the required permit.
(Ord. 2921, passed 12-3-2012; Ord. 3677, passed 3-3-2025)
§ 04-19-07-15 ADDITIONAL CAUSES FOR PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The Public Works Director or City Engineer or their authorized
representatives may revoke any stormwater or erosion and sediment control
permit issued in error, any permit issued based on incorrect information or
upon learning of work which has been performed in violation of this or any
other law of the state or federal government. Upon revocation the permit holder
shall cease all work until such time that a new permit has been issued or
written notification of reactivation of the nullified permit has been received.
(Ord. 2921, passed 12-3-2012; Ord. 3384, passed 12-6-2021; Ord. 3677, passed 3-
3-2025)
§ 04-19-07-17 INSPECTION OF WORK.
   The Public Works Director or City Engineer or their authorized
representatives shall have the authority to enter any premises at any
reasonable hour for the examination of work permitted under §
04-19-07 or any other provision of this code, if such can be accessed safely.
All work requiring inspection under this section shall be left exposed and
accessible to the inspector until such time that the inspector has approved the
installation or construction.
(Ord. 2921, passed 12-3-2012; Ord. 3384, passed 12-6-2021; Ord. 3677, passed 3-
3-2025)
§ 04-19-09 STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP).
   (A)   Contents. The stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) shall
include:
      (1)   A sequence of construction of the development site, including
stripping and clearing, rough grading, stockpiling, construction of utilities,
infrastructure and buildings and final grading and landscaping. Sequencing
shall identify the expected date on which clearing will begin, the estimated
duration of exposure of cleared areas, and the sequence of clearing,
installation of temporary erosion and sediment measures and establishment of
permanent vegetation; and
      (2)   All erosion and sediment control measures necessary to meet the
objectives of this chapter throughout all phases of construction and
permanently, after completion of development of the site.
   (B)   Preparation by qualified person. The erosion and sediment control plan
must be prepared by a qualified person.
   (C)   Modifications to the plan.
      (1)   Field modifications of a minor nature may be authorized by the City
Public Works Department by written authorization to the permittee.
      (2)   Modifications or amendments of the erosion and sediment control
plan considered by the City Public Works Department to be major in nature shall
be processed and approved or disapproved in the same manner as the original
plans.
(Ord. 2921, passed 12-3-2012; Ord. 2923, passed 4-15-2013; Ord. 3677, passed 3-
3-2025)
§ 04-19-11 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITIONS.
   Grading, erosion control practices, sediment control practices and waterway
crossings on all construction sites, and all other activity governed by this
chapter, shall meet the requirements of this chapter and the design criteria
set forth in the most recent version of the “State Construction Site Erosion
and Sediment Control Field Guide,” and shall be adequate to prevent
transportation of sediment from the site to the satisfaction of the City Public
Works Department.
   (A)   Clearing and grading.
      (1)   Clearing and grading shall not be permitted except when in
compliance with all other requirements of this code.
      (2)   Clearing techniques that retain natural vegetation and retain
natural drainage patterns, as described in the “Erosion and Sediment Control
Field Manual,” shall be used to the satisfaction of the City Public Works
Department.
      (3)   Phasing shall be required on all sites disturbing greater than 30
acres, with the size of each phase to be established at plan review and as
approved by the City Public Works Department.
      (4)   Clearing, except that necessary to establish sediment control
devices, shall not begin until all sediment control devices have been installed
and have been stabilized.
      (5)   Cut and fill slopes shall be no greater than three to one (3:1),
except as approved by the City Public Works Department to meet other community
or environmental objectives.
   (B)   Control standards.
      (1)   Soil must be stabilized within ten days of clearing or inactivity
in construction.
      (2)   If vegetative erosion control methods, such as seeding, have not
become established within two weeks, the City Public Works Department may
require that the site be reseeded, or that a non-vegetative option be employed.
      (3)   Techniques for dust control, including treatment of disturbed
surface areas with dust suppressants during all activities until site
stabilization has occurred. Dust control must include one or any combination of
the following:
         (a)   Application of water to disturbed surface areas or prior to
initiating any construction activity;
         (b)   Sweeping and cleaning street locations used for vehicle exits
from construction sites;
         (c)   Application of temporary seed, vegetation or other control
methods;
         (d)   Preservation of vegetation; and
         (e)   Application of dust suppressants on disturbed surface areas.
      (4)   When in-channel work is conducted, the channel shall be stabilized
before, during and after work.
      (5)   Stabilization adequate to prevent erosion must be provided at the
outlets of all pipes and paved channels.
      (6)   A construction entrance shall be built and shall serve as the point
of entrance and exit to the development area.
      (7)   The washing of concrete material into a street, catch basin or onto
the ground or natural resource is prohibited. A designated area for concrete
washout shall be provided at all construction sites on which concrete will be
poured.
      (8)   Other measures may be required at the discretion of the City Public
Works Department to ensure that construction vehicles do not track sediment
onto public streets or sediment is not washed into storm drains.
   (C)   Permit termination.
      (1)   The developer shall maintain permit coverage on his or her
development site until it meets published stabilization requirements of State
DEQ and U.S. EPA construction general permit programs using vegetation,
aggregate cover, tackifier or other effective erosion control mechanism.
Alternatively, the developer may transfer permit coverage to the new party if a
single site operator or alternate developer shall take control of the site.
      (2)   Developers who sell off individual parcels to various builders in a
single subdivision may not close out permit coverage until he or she has
stabilized the permitted phase. Transfer of permit is not an option for
developers who sell off individual parcels to various site operators in a
single subdivision.
      (3)   Upon reaching stabilization, the developer shall close out the city
erosion and sediment control permit and shall file a notice of permit
termination (NOT) with the State Department of Environmental Quality. Within
ten calendar days of permit termination (NOT) approval, the developer shall
remove all BMPs from the permitted phase of development. The city may issue a
citation with or without penalties up to $1,000 plus infrastructure damage and/
or flood-related damages to developer or permit holder for violation of this
part.
(Ord. 2921, passed 12-3-2012; Ord. 2923, passed 4-15-2013; Ord. 3384, passed
12-6-2021; Ord. 3677, passed 3-3-2025)
§ 04-19-13 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The permittee or his or her agent shall make regular inspections of
all control measures in accordance with the inspection schedule outlined on the
approved ESC plan or SWPPP. The purpose of such inspections will be to
determine the overall effectiveness of the control plan and the need for
additional control measures.
   (B)   All inspections shall be documented in written form and submitted to
the City Stormwater Division at the time interval specified in the approved
permit.
   (C)   The City Public Works Department Stormwater Division or its designated
agent shall enter the property of the applicant as deemed necessary to make
regular inspections.
(Ord. 2921, passed 12-3-2012; Ord. 3677, passed 3-3-2025)
§ 04-19-15 ENFORCEMENT.
   In addition to the other enforcement powers and remedies established by this
chapter, any authorized enforcement inspector has the authority to utilize the
following administrative remedies.
   (A)   Citation with or without penalties.
      (1)   No person shall construct, enlarge, alter, repair or maintain any
grading, excavation or fill, or cause the same to be done, contrary to or in
violation of any terms of this chapter. Whenever an authorized inspector finds
any noncompliance on the development site, oil, earth dirt, grass, weeds, dead
trees, tin cans, rubbish, refuse, waste or any other material of any kind, in
or upon the sidewalk abutting or adjoining any parcel of land, or upon any
parcel of land or grounds or in close proximity to any open drain or ditch
channel, which may result in an increase in pollutants entering the storm drain
or a non-stormwater discharge to the storm drain, he or she may give notice to
remove and lawfully dispose of such material in any manner that he or she
reasonably may provide. The recipient of such notice shall undertake the
activities as described in the notice within the time frames set forth therein.
      (2)   A citation constitutes a first warning to the site operator,
developer or builder that their development site does not comply with this
chapter. The city may issue a citation with penalties up to $1,000 per site
violation to the developer or permit holder for violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Notice of violation with or without penalties. Any person violating
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable as provided in Idaho Code §§ 18-113 and 50-302(1), as amended. Each
day during which any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is
committed, continued or permitted shall constitute a separate offense. In
addition to any other penalty authorized by this section, any person,
partnership or corporation convicted of violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be required to bear the costs and expenses of restoration
resulting therefrom.
   (C)   Stop work orders/revocation of permit. In the event that an authorized
enforcement inspector finds that any person knowingly or negligently undertakes
activity regulated in this chapter and/or his, her or their own construction
general permit SWPPP document without first procuring a valid, current permit,
or any holding a site development permit pursuant to this chapter violates the
terms of the permit, constructs upon or alters a site such that it fails to
comply with local, state or federal stormwater management and erosion and
sediment control laws or regulations, or affects the health, safety and welfare
of any human in proximity to the construction site development, the City
Stormwater Division may issue a stop work order and/or suspend/revoke the
grading permit. The order will note that the violator(s) shall be subject to
monetary penalties, in addition to the stop work order and revocation of permit
that was previously listed in this chapter, for the violation of the city’s
IPDES permit, not to exceed $1,000, by the discharging of pollution to state
waters and/or WOTUS, and possible misdemeanor charges.
(Ord. 2923, passed 4-15-2013; Ord. 3094, passed 4-2-2018; Ord. 3384, passed 12-
6-2021; Ord. 3677, passed 3-3-2025)
§ 04-19-17 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions and sections of this chapter shall be deemed to be separable,
and the invalidity of any portion of this chapter shall not affect the validity
of the remainder.
(Ord. 2921, passed 12-3-2012)
§ 04-19-19 EFFECTIVE DATE OF CHAPTER.
   The effective date of this chapter is December 21, 2012. All prior
ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with this chapter are hereby
repealed.
(Ord. 2921, passed 12-3-2012)
TITLE 5: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   Chapter
      
1.   SIDEWALKS
      
3.   STREET, CURB AND ALLEY CUTS
      
5.   BENCHES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
7.   STREET NAMING AND ADDRESS NUMBERING
      
9.   PUBLIC LIGHTING
CHAPTER 1: SIDEWALKS
Section
   
05-01-01   Property owner’s duties
   
05-01-03   Repairs
   
05-01-05   Sidewalk space regulations
   
05-01-07   Specifications adopted
   
05-01-09   Failure to comply
   
05-01-11   Removal of snow, ice, rubbish, debris and weeds
§ 05-01-01 PROPERTY OWNER’S DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty and responsibility of every property owner to
construct, repair and maintain in a safe, nonhazardous condition any sidewalk
on city streets that front the property which he or she owns.
(Ord. 1834, passed 11-6-1989)
§ 05-01-03 REPAIRS.
   (A)   Council-directed repairs. The City Council may deem any sidewalk on
any of the city streets unsafe or dangerous. It may, by resolution passed by a
two-thirds majority of all the members elected to the Council, order such
sidewalk replaced or repaired and assess the cost and expense of replacing or
repairing same against the property in front of which the same shall be
replaced or repaired.
   (B)   Notice required. Notice to repair or replace any sidewalk on any
street shall be given to the property owners by the City Council in front of
whose property the sidewalk has been ordered replaced or repaired. Said
property owner shall replace or repair the sidewalk within 60 days following
the date of notice.
   (C)   When city makes repairs. Whenever a sidewalk or any portion thereof
which has been ordered replaced or repaired shall not be repaired or replaced
within the time specified, then the city shall replace or repair the same by
contract and assess the cost and expense thereof in the manner provided by this
chapter. Nothing herein contained shall be construed so as to prevent giving
any notice required to be given by this chapter.
   (D)   Certain sidewalk repairs paid by city. In order to expedite certain
necessary sidewalk repairs, and if sufficient funds are available, the city
will schedule and pay for sidewalk repairs of damages not caused by the
property owner.
(Ord. 1482, passed 6-20-1978; Ord. 1834, passed 11-6-1989; Ord. 3602, passed 5-
7-2024)
§ 05-01-05 SIDEWALK SPACE REGULATIONS.
   When new curbs are constructed or replaced, a level and unobstructed area
consisting of hard-packed dirt, mowed grass, gravel or material approved by the
City Engineer shall be maintained by the owner of the residence for a distance
of four feet back from the back of the curb line and approximately level with
the top of the curb. Where permanent public utilities and irrigation facilities
exist within the four-foot area, they shall be allowed to remain until
replacement is necessary after which they shall be moved back to clear the
four-foot public right-of-way.
(Ord. 1467, passed 5-2-1978)
§ 05-01-07 SPECIFICATIONS ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted “Sidewalk Construction and Improvement Standards,”
copies of which shall be on file at all times with the City Engineer. The
material and method of sidewalk construction shall conform in all respects to
these specifications.
§ 05-01-09 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   If such property owner shall fail, after notification, to construct or
repair any sidewalk, the Mayor and City Council may order the same constructed
or repaired. The cost of said work shall be assessed against the property owner
for which said sidewalk was constructed or repaired, and said cost shall become
a lien upon the property.
§ 05-01-11 REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE, RUBBISH, DEBRIS AND WEEDS.
   It shall be the duty and responsibility of every property owner to clear all
ice, snow, rubbish, debris and weeds from sidewalks along city streets that
front the property which he or she owns. Snow and ice shall be removed in a
timely manner following a storm, but shall not be piled so that it obstructs
the travel lanes of the street or sidewalk, nor shall snow removed from private
parking areas be piled upon city rights-of-way or on private property from
which permission has not been obtained.
(Ord. 1834, passed 11-6-1989)
Cross-reference:
   Public health regulations, see
Title 7 of this code
CHAPTER 3: STREET, CURB AND ALLEY CUTS
Section
   
05-03-01   Street and curb construction and improvement standards adopted
   
05-03-03   Street and alley cuts
§ 05-03-01 STREET AND CURB CONSTRUCTION AND IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS ADOPTED.
   Street and curb construction and improvement standards to be compiled by the
City Engineer are hereby adopted as part of this code, and a copy of said
street and curb construction and improvement standards shall at all times be
kept on file in the office of the City Engineer. The provisions thereof shall
govern the construction and repair of all streets and curbs within the city.
§ 05-03-03 STREET AND ALLEY CUTS.
   (A)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful for any person to cut or make
cuts in any street or in any paved alley for the purpose of making sewer
connections, water connections or otherwise without first obtaining a street
cutting permit from the City Engineer.
   (B)   Restoration of paved streets and paved alleys.
      (1)   Where a paved street or alley is cut, the restoration of the
pavement shall be made by the city at the expense of the person cutting the
street or alley, and payment shall be made to the city at the time such permit
is granted. The cost of restoration shall be a flat rate of $35.
      (2)   Franchised utilities may, at the approval of the City Engineer,
contract with others within the city to restore pavement. All costs of pavement
restoration shall be at the expense of the utility.
   (C)   Specifications adopted. All street and alley cuts shall be made in
accordance with the specifications hereby adopted as “Regulations for Cutting
Streets and Alleys,” copies of which shall be on file at all times in the
office of the City Engineer.
(Ord. 1418, passed 3-1-1977)
CHAPTER 5: BENCHES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
[Reserved]
(Repealed by Ord. 2805, passed 11-2-2009)
CHAPTER 7: STREET NAMING AND ADDRESS NUMBERING
Section
   
05-07-01   Short title, purpose and applicability
   
05-07-02   Definitions
   
05-07-03   Approvals required
   
05-07-04   Designation of street names
   
05-07-05   Private streets and common driveways within city limits
   
05-07-06   Subdivisions and/or planned unit developments
   
05-07-07   Street sign regulations
   
05-07-08   Changes in street names
   
05-07-09   Street address numbering
   
05-07-10   Placement and posting of addresses on buildings and signs
§ 05-07-01 SHORT TITLE, PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall be known as the City of Caldwell Uniform Street Name and
Address Number Ordinance and is adopted for the purpose of providing uniform
street name and address number grid systems, and for proper administration and
enforcement of these systems. This chapter shall apply to all lands within the
city.
(Ord. 3110, passed 9-18-2017)
§ 05-07-02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADDRESS COMMITTEE. Group of city employees designated to handle complex
addressing questions and decisions and is made up of the following individuals:
the GIS Analyst responsible for addressing, the Mapping Supervisor, the Fire
Marshal, the “Fire Plans Examiner” as defined herein, and the Senior Planner.
   CITY. The City of Caldwell, Idaho.
   CITY ENGINEER. The City Engineer of the City of Caldwell.
   COMMON DRIVEWAY. Private driveway shared by residents or users of more than
one lot. Owned and maintained by private individuals or entities and not by
governmental entities.
   COUNCIL. The City of Caldwell City Council.
   COUNTY. Canyon County, Idaho.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A street connecting to another street at one end only, provided
with a permanent circular turnaround space at its terminus. (See
Title 11 (Subdivisions) for further definitions of types of streets.)
   FIRE PLANS EXAMINER. Reviewer of subdivision plats, site plans and building
permits to ensure compliance with International Fire Code and City Fire Code.
   OFFICIAL ADDRESS GRID SYSTEM. The official matrix used to identify street
address numbers.
   OFFICIAL STREET NAME LIST. The list containing the official street names
within the incorporated areas of the city and should also contain the official
street names within the county and all incorporated and unincorporated areas
within the county.
   PLAT or SITE PLAN. A subdivision plat, mobile home park plan, planned unit
development or recreational vehicle park plan.
   PRIVATE STREET. An access roadway which provides both access and street
frontage for individual lots. PRIVATE STREETS are owned and maintained by
private individuals or entities and not by governmental entities.
   PUBLIC STREET. A street which provides street frontage and vehicular and
pedestrian access to adjacent properties and is maintained by a government
entity. Its designation may include the following terms: avenue, boulevard,
circle, court, drive, loop, place, road, street and/or way.
   SHALL. The requirement is mandatory.
   STREET. Public or private street.
(Ord. 2828, passed 6-21-2010; Ord. 3110, passed 9-18-2017)
§ 05-07-03 APPROVALS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before any common driveway, private street or public street is named
within the incorporated areas of the city, there shall be obtained from the
fire plans examiner approval for the name using the provisions contained within
this chapter and the official street name list.
   (B)   Before any address numbers are posted on any street, building or sign
within the incorporated areas of the city, there shall be obtained from the
City Mapping Department assignment and/or approval of the street address using
the official address grid system and the provisions contained within this
chapter.
   (C)   The official address grid system is maintained in and by the office of
the City Mapping Department.
(Ord. 2828, passed 6-21-2010; Ord. 3110, passed 9-18-2017)
§ 05-07-04 DESIGNATION OF STREET NAMES.
   (A)   All new private and public street names and common driveway names
shall be established in accordance with the standards set forth in this
chapter, and said names, upon recordation of a final plat and/or upon address
assignment by the City Mapping Department, shall become part of said official
street name list.
   (B)   The following rules and regulations shall be used in determining and
approving private and public street names and common driveway names.
      (1)   Duplication of names prohibited. There shall be no duplication of
private or public street names or common driveway names by name, sound, sound
alike or spelling with any other existing or proposed names within the city
and/or within any area within county boundaries. Except as approved by the fire
plans examiner, there should generally be no rhyming of said names with any
other existing or proposed names within the city and/or within any area within
county boundaries. Differentiation shall not be by the addition of any
suffixes, such as street, avenue and the like.
      (2)   Duplication of subdivision names. Names of private or public
streets or common driveways shall not duplicate any subdivision name anywhere
within the city or the county; except that a private or public street or common
driveway within a specific subdivision may duplicate the name of the specific
subdivision in which it exists.
      (3)   Words difficult to spell or pronounce. Words that are difficult to
spell or pronounce, as determined by the fire plans examiner, are prohibited
from being used as private or public street names or common driveway names.
      (4)   Names for future streets. Proposed names for future private and/or
public streets and/or common driveways shall be submitted to the fire plans
examiner for approval, subject to all provisions of this chapter.
      (5)   Names of existing streets; proposed streets. Where a proposed
private or public street connects to and is in the same general alignment as an
existing private or public street, the name of said existing street shall be
maintained for both the existing and the proposed new portion with the
appropriate and correct suffix designation, as determined in accordance with
the provisions herein, assigned to the proposed portion. Where a proposed
private or public street is in the same general alignment as an existing
private or public street, but the centerline connection to a common street is
offset by more than 100 feet, the proposed new portion shall be given a unique
street name and appropriate suffix. In cases where said offset is less than 100
feet, the proposed new portion may carry the same name as the existing portion
with the appropriate and correct suffix designation. Where a proposed private
or public street is in the same general alignment as an existing private or
public street, but is disconnected and will never connect, the proposed new
portion shall be given a unique street name and appropriate suffix.
      (6)   Names of new portion of street. Where a proposed private or public
street connects two differently named private or public streets located on the
same alignment, the applicant shall choose which of the two adjoining, existing
street names to use for the new portion of connecting street.
      (7)   Cul-de-sac names; number of lots. Cul-de-sacs with four or fewer
lots and an overall length of 100 feet or less (as measured from the centerline
of the principal street to the point of radius) shall carry the same street
name and suffix as the main street from which the cul-de-sac originates. Cul-
de-sacs with five or more lots shall be given their own unique street name and
appropriate suffix.
      (8)   Cul-de-sac names; alignment. Cul-de-sacs that are on the same
alignment as an existing or proposed street shall carry the same name and
suffix as the existing street. If not on the same alignment, they shall be
assigned a different name with an appropriate suffix in accordance with
division (B)(7) above.
      (9)   Street suffix. A proposed street which aligns with an existing
street shall carry the same street name, but with the correct street suffix
designation for the proposed street even though the existing street suffix
designation may be incorrect. The existing incorrect street suffix designation
for the existing street may continue.
      (10)   Meandering streets. The determination as to whether or not a
street is meandering shall be made by the Mapping Department, and such
meandering street should be assigned the appropriate street suffix designation
of either “way” or “drive” in accordance with the provisions herein with the
caveat that if a street originates with a suffix that suffix should remain for
the entire length of the street, both existing and proposed.
      (11)   L-shaped streets. Both portions of an L-shaped street should carry
the same name if either leg is approximately 100 feet or less in length,
otherwise, the L-shaped streets should carry two names.
      (12)   Use of directional prefixes. Directional prefixes of “north,”
“south,” “east” and “west” should generally not be used in the naming of new
streets and shall not be used as a differentiation between new street names.
      (13)   Change in direction of street. If the Mapping Department
determines that a street makes a very obvious change in direction, a new street
name shall be assigned, except as herein provided, at a point that shall be
determined by the Mapping Department.
      (14)   Length of street names. Street names, not including suffixes,
shall not exceed, in length, a total of 15 letters and spaces combined. All
street names shall conform to this limitation except where existing names are
to be continued due to alignments as specified herein.
   (C)   (1)   The following suffixes shall be used in designating street names
and common driveway names within city limits.
         (a)   AVENUE. A north-south street generally running in a straight
line which provides vehicular and pedestrian access to adjacent properties.
         (b)   BOULEVARD. A street which is 80 feet wide or greater and
provides vehicular and/or pedestrian access to adjacent properties and which
should be separated by a raised median strip, landscaped or not.
         (c)   CIRCLE. Short streets which return to themselves or begin and
end in the same street.
         (d)   COURT. An east-west cul-de-sac connecting to an avenue or way at
one end only which provides vehicular and/or pedestrian access to adjacent
properties.
         (e)   DRIVE. A street generally meandering in an east-west direction,
which provides vehicular and/or pedestrian access to adjacent properties.
         (f)   LANE. A private street not dedicated to or maintained by the
city. Its acceptance shall be based on approval by the city.
         (g)   LOOP. Short streets which return to themselves or begin and end
in the same street.
         (h)   PLACE. A north-south cul-de-sac connecting to a drive or street
at one end only which provides vehicular and/or pedestrian access to adjacent
properties.
         (i)   ROAD. A designated street which extends through both urban and
rural areas which provides vehicular and/or pedestrian access to adjacent
properties.
         (j)   STREET. An east-west street generally running in a straight line
which provides vehicular and/or pedestrian access to adjacent properties.
         (k)   WAY. A street generally meandering in a north-south direction,
which provides vehicular and/or pedestrian access to adjacent properties.
      (2)   The use of the term ROAD or BOULEVARD shall be determined and
approved by the City Engineer and shall be based upon the function and
improvements of such streets.
(Ord. 2828, passed 6-21-2010; Ord. 3110, passed 9-18-2017)
§ 05-07-05 PRIVATE STREETS AND COMMON DRIVEWAYS WITHIN CITY LIMITS.
   (A)   Naming of private streets and common driveways shall comply with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Required private street and common driveway signs shall not be
installed, owned or maintained by the city, but rather shall be installed,
maintained and replaced by the private individuals or entities who use said
private streets and common driveways. The administrative citation process, as
outlined in §
10-03-10 of the zoning regulations, shall be utilized to address failure to
maintain or replace required private street and common driveway signs.
   (C)   Private street and common driveway signs shall conform to the
standards of §
05-07-07.
   (D)   In instances of platting, required private street and/or common
driveway signs shall be installed to city specifications prior to submittal of
a final plat application. In all other instances, such signs shall be installed
prior to issuance of a temporary certificate of occupancy.
   (E)   Common driveways may be given a name, in accordance with the
provisions contained herein, when said common driveways serve three or more
buildable lots or three or more residential buildings. If and when a common
driveway becomes named, the street number assignment for the structures
utilizing the common driveway will change in accordance with the provisions
herein and the official address grid system.
(Ord. 2828, passed 6-21-2010; Ord. 3594, passed 4-16-2024; Ord. 3608, passed 7-
2-2024)
§ 05-07-06 SUBDIVISIONS AND/OR PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Proposed street and common driveway names shall be shown on all
preliminary plats and planned unit developments when applications are submitted
initially to the Planning and Zoning Department. The fire plans examiner, in
conjunction with the Mapping Department, upon review of the plat or
development, shall review proposed street and common driveway names for
compliance with the provisions as set forth in this chapter.
      (1)   Any necessary revisions, as per the provisions contained herein,
shall be made prior to final approval of the preliminary plat or planned unit
development.
      (2)   The Mapping Department shall reserve placement of approved names on
the official street names list. Official placement does not take place until a
final plat is recorded and/or a street address number assignment is made.
   (B)   Approved street and common driveway names shall be shown on all
construction drawings initially submitted to the Engineering Department and on
all final plats when final plat applications are initially submitted to the
Planning and Zoning Department.
   (C)   All half streets, partial streets, private streets, public streets and
common driveways shall be named in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (D)   Installation of all required street signs and/or common driveway
signs, with appropriate names and suffixes thereon, all in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, shall be required prior to acceptance of any final
plat application and prior to issuance of any temporary or permanent
certificates of occupancy.
   (E)   Prior to any construction taking place on a subdivision or planned
unit development site, temporary street signage (and addresses if applicable)
shall be installed and maintained for the duration of the construction until
replaced with permanent street signage and posted address numbers, such that
all street names and any assigned addresses under construction shall be visibly
available at all times for emergency services purposes.
(Ord. 2828, passed 6-21-2010; Ord. 3110, passed 9-18-2017)
§ 05-07-07 STREET SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All street name/common driveway signs shall be located in such a
manner as to be clearly visible to persons operating vehicles on the street or
common driveway.
   (B)   All public street signs shall be green, all private street signs and
common driveway signs shall be blue and all lettering on all signs shall be
white.
   (C)   All signs shall have the names lettered on both sides and shall be
positioned so that the name is visible from both directions of the street.
   (D)   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider, developer,
applicant, owner, individual and/or private entity to initially purchase and
install all required signs at each and every required location. Street signs on
public streets, once officially dedicated to and accepted by the city, shall be
maintained by the city. Street signs for private streets and common driveways
shall be owned and maintained by those individuals and/or private entities who
utilize the private street or common driveway.
   (E)   All street sign construction shall be in accordance with the latest
version of the city’s supplemental specifications to the State Standards for
Public Works Construction (ISPWC) in effect at the time of sign installation.
(Ord. 2828, passed 6-21-2010; Ord. 3110, passed 9-18-2017)
§ 05-07-08 CHANGES IN STREET NAMES.
   (A)   General street name changes. Anyone may, at any time, propose a name
change to an existing private or public street name or common driveway name.
      (1)   The following items shall be considered when reviewing a proposal
for a name change:
         (a)   Number of existing addresses on the street(s) in question;
         (b)   Length of time each street has used the existing name;
         (c)   Date of the original dedication of said street(s), if any;
         (d)   Each street’s compliance with this chapter; and
         (e)   Any other factor pertinent to resolving similar pronunciation,
spelling, rhyming, sound or sound alike issues.
      (2)   No name changes may take place unless and until the proposed names
have been checked against the official street name list for duplication,
spelling, rhyming, sound or sound-alikes and/or similar pronunciations to any
existing names on said list.
      (3)   Application shall be made to the Mapping Department for any
proposed name change. Said application shall be considered for approval by the
City Council after a public hearing using the notice and hearing process as
outlined in §
10-03-12 of the zoning regulations.
      (4)   All changes shall be made in such a manner as to create the least
possible inconvenience to affected residents and property owners.
      (5)   Council shall establish the effective date of such a change;
however, no change shall become effective sooner than 30 days following
publication of the ordinance.
   (B)   Emergency services or mapping street name changes. The Fire Marshal or
the Mapping Department may, at any time, make name changes or suffix changes to
a private or public street name or common driveway name for reasons of
duplication, rhyming, similar pronunciation or spelling, consistency in
addressing or for any other reason relating to public safety or emergency
services ease of use and understanding.
      (1)   All changes shall be considered for approval by the City Council
after a public hearing using the notice and hearing process as outlined in §
10-03-12 of the zoning regulations.
      (2)   All changes shall be made in an attempt to create the least
possible inconvenience to affected residents and property owners.
      (3)   The City Mapping Department shall give official written notice at
least 90 days in advance of the effective date of such change to property
owners and those local agencies affected by such changes with the exception
that the effective date of such change to vacant properties and properties
under new construction shall be upon publication of the ordinance.
(Ord. 2828, passed 6-21-2010; Ord. 3110, passed 9-18-2017; Ord. 3594, passed 4-
16-2024)
§ 05-07-09 STREET ADDRESS NUMBERING.
   (A)   Numbers to conform to grid system. All street and/or common driveway
address numbers shall conform to the city or county grid system, depending on
location as shown on the official address grid system as filed and maintained
by the City Mapping Department. The general standards to be used in developing
and maintaining the street address grid system are as follows.
      (1)   City grid system.
         (a)   Sixteen grid blocks shall be assigned to each section, as
defined by the public land survey system (PLSS), and approximately 330 feet
between grid lines shall be standard when establishing the grid system.
         (b)   A standard of approximately 25 numbers per grid is hereby
established.
      (2)   County grid system.
         (a)   Ten grid blocks shall be assigned to each section, as defined by
the PLSS, and approximately 528 feet between grid lines.
         (b)   There shall be 100 numbers per grid block.
   (B)   Numbers assigned by Mapping Department. All address numbers located
within the city limits shall be assigned by the City Mapping Department. No
other person or organization, public or private, shall assign any address
number to any residence, business, industry or other use.
   (C)   Factors in assigning numbers. The following shall be used as a guide
in assigning said address numbers by the City Mapping Department.
      (1)   Single-family residential dwellings and duplexes should generally
be assigned individual single address numbers. All other buildings and
structures, including triplexes and other multi-family dwellings, should
generally be assigned only one address number with individual units or spaces
within the building being assigned individual suite or unit numbers in addition
to the single address number assigned to the building as a whole. All primary
address numbers shall be whole numbers. Fractional or decimal part addressing
shall not be allowed.
      (2)   Numbers may be assigned to vacant lots within platted residential
subdivisions and should generally be assigned in such a manner that adequate
numbers are reserved for possible future development or resubdivisions of such
land.
      (3)   Preferably addresses should generally be assigned on the street
upon which the structure fronts, unless primary access to the building is from
another street or unless the structure is situated such that addressing off the
frontage street would create confusion for emergency services, in which case
addresses should then be assigned on the street which provides primary access.
      (4)   All addresses located on the left-hand side of streets as the
numbers increase from the numbering grid shall be odd numbers. All addresses on
the right-hand side of streets as the numbers increase from the numbering grid
starting point shall be even numbers. These requirements may be varied in the
case of meandering streets. When a street has been determined to be running in
predominantly one direction, the address number shall not be changed if there
is slight change in the street or lane direction.
      (5)   Whereas there are multiple existing numbering grids in use in the
city, all new addresses shall be assigned using the grid determined by the City
Mapping Department to be the best for the new area.
      (6)   Existing address numbers not in conformance with the official
address grid system may be changed by the City Mapping Department, giving
official written notice at least 90 days in advance of the effective date of
such change to property owners and those local agencies affected by such
changes with the exception that the effective date of such change to vacant
properties and properties under new construction shall be immediately upon
notification. Property owners and local agencies noncompliant with official
address changes shall be subject to the administrative citation process as
outlined in §
10-03-10 of the zoning regulations.
      (7)   When an existing addressed building is demolished, the address
number shall be retired and not re-used for new construction or re-development
unless insufficient address numbers exist to allow such to be changed.
   (D)   Sub-addressing. The numbering of units, spaces and suites shall take
place by the Mapping Department and, when consultation is needed, said
Department shall call upon the Addressing Committee.
(Ord. 2828, passed 6-21-2010; Ord. 3110, passed 9-18-2017; Ord. 3594, passed 4-
16-2024)
§ 05-07-10 PLACEMENT AND POSTING OF ADDRESSES ON BUILDINGS AND SIGNS.
   All buildings within the city limits, whether occupied or not, and whether
for residential or nonresidential use, shall have address numbers, and, when
required, street names, posted as follows.
   (A)   Address numbers shall be placed on the front of all buildings, whether
residential or nonresidential. If the street address is based upon a street
other than the street upon which the building fronts, the street name should
also be posted on the building in addition to the numbers and the address
numbers and street name should also be posted on the street side of the
building.
   (B)   All approved address numbers, building numbers and approved building
identification (subaddresses) shall be placed in a position plainly legible and
visible from the street fronting the property. All posted numbers shall
contrast distinctly with their background (light on dark or dark on light).
   (C)   Address numbers and, where applicable, words, shall be Arabic style
numerals or block style alphabet letters.
   (D)   All address numbers shall be a minimum of six inches high with a
minimum stroke width of one-half inch. All sizable complexes or facilities
(such as shopping centers, industrial sites, apartment complexes and the like)
shall have address numbers a minimum of 12 inches high. Any building located
significantly back from the street it faces may be required to post
proportionately larger sized numerals as deemed adequate to identify the
structure. All subaddress numbers shall be a minimum of four inches high.
   (E)   Buildings or uses with permanent on-premises monument, post, pole or
freestanding signage that include addressing as part of the signage shall place
addresses on such signs in large numbers that are distinct and separate from
other messages on the sign.
   (F)   Required address and street name postings on all buildings shall take
place prior to issuance of any temporary or final certificate of occupancy.
Occupied buildings that do not have required address and street name postings
shall be subject to the administrative citation process as outlined in §
10-03-10 of the zoning regulations.
   (G)   Temporary street signage and temporary posting of the address number
shall be in place on all construction sites. Construction sites lacking the
required temporary street signage and temporary posting of the address number
shall be subject to the administrative citation process as outlined in §
10-03-10 of the zoning regulations.
(Ord. 2828, passed 6-21-2010; Ord. 3110, passed 9-18-2017; Ord. 3594, passed 4-
16-2024)
CHAPTER 9: PUBLIC LIGHTING
Section
   
05-09-01   Legislative intent
   
05-09-02   Purpose and definitions
   
05-09-03   Charges
   
05-09-04   Separate fund
   
05-09-05   Sections severable
   
05-09-06   Conflicting ordinances
   
05-09-07   Enactment
   
05-09-08   Policy, street lighting
§ 05-09-01 LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   (A)   Article 12, § 2 of the State Constitution and Idaho Code § 50-302
authorize cities to make and enforce regulations needed for the welfare of the
city not in conflict with the general laws.
   (B)   Idaho Code §§ 50-312 and 50-313 authorize the city to provide for
street lighting within the city and Idaho Code §§ 63-1311 and 63-1311A
authorizes the city to impose and collect fees for such services.
   (C)   The City Council does hereby find that public lighting promotes the
safety and welfare of property owners and residents of the city and the
beneficial use and enjoyment of improved real property within the city.
   (D)   The City Council further finds that residents and property owners
benefit from public lighting through the increased safety that a well-lighted
neighborhood provides and through increased safety when driving or walking in
the city and that these benefits accrue even when such lighting is not adjacent
to their property.
   (E)   The City Council further finds that it is equitable and fair that the
owners and occupants of improved real property pay for public lighting by
charges commensurate with the relative proportionate benefit, as determined by
the Council, received for such service.
   (F)   The City Council further finds that the most practical, fair and
equitable method of collecting such charges is to include the billing of such
charges as a separate item under the general utility billings of the city.
(Ord. 1945, passed 5-4-1992; Ord. 3702, passed 8-18-2025)
§ 05-09-02 PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Expenses associated with public lighting within the city shall be
financed by charges assessed to the owners of improved real property. Only the
benefiting property owner, or his or her duly authorized agent, may initiate
service. The procedures for initiating service, disconnecting service, billing
of accounts and processing of delinquent accounts shall be in accordance with
policies adopted by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC LIGHTING shall refer to all
lighting of exterior public areas, which may include lighting of public
streets, sidewalks, walkways, bike paths, adjacent private property and other
areas not specifically excluded herein, which is paid for and/or maintained by
the city for the benefit of the general public.
   (C)   The charges assessed shall be included in the general utility billing
as a separate item and as hereinafter set forth; provided, however, that the
costs of lighting to illuminate parks and playfields shall be paid from the
city’s General Fund. Improved city property shall be subject to said fees, to
be paid from the appropriate department budget.
   (D)   Improved real property, within the meaning of this chapter, shall
include real estate which:
      (1)   Has city water and/or sewer and/or garbage service;
      (2)   Is paved;
      (3)   Landscaped; or
      (4)   Has erected thereon any construction for which a building permit
would be required.
   (E)   For the purpose of this chapter and any related resolution,
residential property shall include property having occupancy or living
accommodations on a permanent or semipermanent basis.
   (F)   At the initiation or reconnection of service, the city may elect to
collect a security deposit to ensure the ultimate payment of charges and fees.
The procedures for collecting, the amount, the procedures for applying to
delinquent charges and fees and the final disposition of unapplied amounts of
said security deposit shall be in accordance with policies adopted by
resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 1945, passed 5-4-1992; Ord. 2466, passed 7-21-2003)
§ 05-09-03 CHARGES.
   (A)   The owners of all improved real property within the city are hereby
made subject to service charges for public lighting.
   (B)   Service charges shall be enacted by resolution. The owners of improved
real property shall be jointly and severally liable for such charges.
(Ord. 2466, passed 7-21-2003; Ord. 2889, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 05-09-04 SEPARATE FUND.
   All funds received for public lighting shall be accounted for separately and
shall be used only for payment of expenses related to providing lighting
services.
(Ord. 1945, passed 5-4-1992)
§ 05-09-05 SECTIONS SEVERABLE.
   Each section and each provision or requirement of any section of this
chapter shall be considered severable, and the invalidity of any portion of a
section or the invalidity of any portion of the section as to any person or
persons shall not affect the validity or enforcement of any other portion.
(Ord. 1945, passed 5-4-1992)
§ 05-09-06 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances and parts of ordinances in conflict with this chapter are
hereby repealed.
(Ord. 1945, passed 5-4-1992)
§ 05-09-07 ENACTMENT.
   This chapter shall take effect and be in force upon its passage, approval
and publication according to law.
(Ord. 1945, passed 5-4-1992)
§ 05-09-08 POLICY, STREET LIGHTING.
   It shall be the policy of the city to encourage the installation of
streetlights throughout the developed portion of our community. The city agrees
to assume all electricity and maintenance costs for street lighting along
public thoroughfares once complete installation has been done.
(Ord. 1945, passed 5-4-1992)
TITLE 6: BUSINESS AND LICENSING REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
1.   LICENSES
      
3.   PAWNBROKERS
      
5.   DOOR-TO-DOOR SALESPERSONS
      
7.   LIQUOR, BEER AND WINE REGULATIONS
      
9.   TREE TRIMMERS
      
11.   TAXICABS AND COMMERCIAL TRANSPORTATION VEHICLES
      
15.   GARAGE, YARD AND SIMILAR SALES
      
17.   SALE YARD
      
19.   ESCORT SERVICES
      
21.   PRIVATE PATROL SERVICE
      
23.   SPECIAL EVENTS
CHAPTER 1: LICENSES
Section
   
06-01-01   Application
   
06-01-03   Person subject to license
   
06-01-05   Forms
   
06-01-07   Signatures
   
06-01-09   Investigations
   
06-01-11   Termination of license
   
06-01-12   Revocation of license
   
06-01-13   Building and premises
   
06-01-15   Change of location
   
06-01-17   Frontage consents
   
06-01-19   Nuisances
   
06-01-21   Inspections
   
06-01-23   Revocation
   
06-01-25   Posting of license
   
06-01-27   Fees
   
06-01-29   License not transferable
§ 06-01-01 APPLICATION.
   Applications for all licenses and permits required by this code shall be
made in writing to the duly authorized official, unless otherwise specifically
provided by law. Each application shall state the name of the applicant, the
permit or license desired, the location to be used, if any, the time covered
and the fee to be paid, and each application shall contain such additional
information as may be required by the issuing official.
§ 06-01-03 PERSON SUBJECT TO LICENSE.
   Whenever in this code a license is required for the maintenance, operation
or conduct of any business or establishment, or for doing business or engaging
in any activity or occupation, any person or corporation shall be subject to
the requirement if by himself or herself or through an agent, employee or
partner, he or she holds himself or herself forth as being engaged in the
business or occupation; or solicits patronage therefor, actively or passively;
or performs or attempts to perform any part of such business or occupation in
the municipality.
§ 06-01-05 FORMS.
   Forms for all licenses and permits, and applications therefor, shall be
prepared and kept on file with the City Clerk or other duly authorized
officials.
§ 06-01-07 SIGNATURES.
   Each license or permit issued, in the absence of any provision to the
contrary, shall bear the signatures of the Mayor and the City Clerk.
§ 06-01-09 INVESTIGATIONS.
   Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit where laws of the
municipality necessitate an inspection or investigation before the issuance of
such permit or license, the City Clerk shall refer such application to the
proper officer for making such investigation within 48 hours of the time of
such receipt. The officer charged with the duty of making the investigation or
inspection shall make a report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten days
after receiving the application or a copy thereof. The Southwest District
Health Department shall make or cause to be made an inspection in regard to
such licenses in the connections of the care and handling of food and the
preventing of nuisances and the spread of disease. For the protection of
health, the Building Inspector shall make or cause to be made any such
inspection relative to the construction of buildings or other structures. All
other investigations, except where otherwise provided, shall be made by the
Chief of Police or by some other officer designated by the Mayor.
§ 06-01-11 TERMINATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All annual licenses shall terminate on the last day of the fiscal year
of the municipality where no provision to the contrary is made.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall mail to all licensees of the municipality a
statement of the time of expiration of the license held by the licensee, if any
annual, three weeks prior to the date of such expiration. Provided, that
failure to send out such notice, or failure of the licensee to receive it shall
not excuse the licensee from failure to obtain a new license, or a renewal
thereof, nor shall it be a defense in an action for operation without a
license.
§ 06-01-12 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   If the City Clerk determines that facts exist for the denial,
suspension or revocation of a license under this title, the City Clerk shall
notify the applicant or licensee (respondent) in writing of the intent to deny,
suspend or revoke the license, including the grounds therefor, by personal
delivery or by certified mail. The notification shall be directed to the most
current business address on file with the Clerk’s office. Within five working
days of receipt of such notice, the respondent may provide to the City Clerk,
in writing, a response that shall include a statement of reasons why the
license should not be denied, suspended or revoked. If no response is
submitted, the denial, suspension or revocation will be deemed uncontested.
Within seven working days of the receipt of respondent’s written response, the
City Clerk shall notify respondent, in writing, of the hearing date on
respondent’s denial, suspension or revocation proceeding.
   (B)   Within 14 working days of the receipt of respondent’s written
response, the Mayor and City Council shall conduct a hearing at which
respondent shall have the opportunity to be represented by counsel and present
evidence and witnesses on respondent’s behalf. If a response is not received by
the licensing officer within the time stated, or if, after the hearing, the
City Council finds that grounds exist for denial, suspension or revocation,
then such denial, suspension or revocation shall become final five days after
the licensing officer sends, by certified mail, written notice that the license
has been denied, suspended or revoked.
   (C)   If the City Council finds that no grounds exist for denial, suspension
or revocation of a license then, within five days after the hearing, the
licensing officer shall withdraw the intent to deny, suspend or revoke the
license and shall so notify the respondent, in writing, by certified mail of
such action and shall, contemporaneously therewith, issue the license.
(Ord. 3621, passed 8-5-2024)
§ 06-01-13 BUILDING AND PREMISES.
   No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business, and no permit
shall be issued for any thing, or act, if the premises and building to be used
for the purpose do not fully comply with the requirements of the municipality.
No such license or permit shall be issued for the conduct of any business or
performance of any act which would involve a violation of the zoning ordinance
of the municipality. (See Title 10 of this code.)
§ 06-01-15 CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   In the absence of the any provision to the contrary, the location of any
licensed business or occupation, or of any permitted act, may be changed
provided ten days’ notice thereof is given to the City Clerk; provided, the
building, zoning and frontage consent requirements of this code are complied
with.
§ 06-01-17 FRONTAGE CONSENTS.
   (A)   Whenever the consent of the adjoining or neighboring owners is
required as a prerequisite to the conduct of any business or occupation, or the
location of any establishment, such consent must be obtained by securing the
necessary signatures to a written consent petition. Such petition shall be
filed with the City Clerk when signed.
   (B)   Consents once given and filed shall not be withdrawn, and such
petitions need not be renewed for the continuous conduct of the same business,
whether by the same proprietor or not.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to forge any name to such a petition or to
represent falsely that the names thereon have been properly placed thereon if
such is not the fact.
   (D)   Each consent when filed shall be accompanied by the affidavit of the
person securing the signatures that each signature appearing therein was
properly secured and written on and that the petition contains the necessary
number of signatures required by this code.
   (E)   The frontage consent requirements contained in this code shall not be
construed to amend or change any zoning ordinance provision of the
municipality, and no such provision shall be construed as permitting the
erection of a structure or building, or the conduct of a business or the
commission of any act in any location where such structure, building, business
or act is or are prohibited by any zoning ordinance of the municipality. (See
Title 10 of this code.)
§ 06-01-19 NUISANCES.
   No business, licensed or not, shall be so conducted or operated as to amount
to a nuisance, as defined by this code or the state code.
(Ord. 1492, passed 6-20-1978)
§ 06-01-21 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with
the operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required
by this code, or are reasonably necessary to secure compliance with any code
provisions or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the
licensee, or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected, to admit
thereto for the purpose of making the inspection, any officer or employee of
the municipality who is authorized or directed to make such inspection at any
reasonable time that admission is requested.
   (B)   Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably
necessary to secure conformance with any code provision or to detect violations
thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee of the municipality whose
business is governed by such provision to give to any authorized officer or
employee of the municipality requesting the same sufficient samples of such
material or commodity for such analysis upon request.
   (C)   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the Mayor may
revoke the license of any licensed proprietor of any licensed business in the
municipality who refuses to permit any such officer or employee who is
authorized to make such inspection or take such sample to make the inspection,
or take an adequate sample of said commodity, or who interferes with such
officer or employee while in the performance of his or her duty in making such
inspection; provided, that no license shall be revoked for such cause unless
written demand is made upon the licensee or person in charge of the premises,
in the name of the municipality, stating that such inspection or sample is
desired at the time it is sought to make the inspection or obtain the sample.
§ 06-01-23 REVOCATION.
   Any license or permit issued for a limited time may be revoked by the Mayor
at any time for any violation by the licensee or permittee of the code
provisions relating to the license or permit, the subject matter of the license
or permit or to the premises occupied. Such revocation may be in addition to
any fine imposed.
§ 06-01-25 POSTING OF LICENSE.
   It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the
municipality to keep his or her license posted at all times in a prominent
place on the premises used for such business.
§ 06-01-27 FEES.
   In the absence of specific provisions to the contrary, all fees and charges
for licenses or permits shall be paid in advance at the time application
therefor is made to the City Clerk. When an applicant has not engaged in the
business until after the expiration of more than six months of the current
license year, the license fee shall be in the sum of one-half of the fee
specified for the entire year. All license fees shall be deposited to the
General Fund.
§ 06-01-29 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   No license granted or issued under any provisions of this chapter shall be
in any way assignable or transferable, or authorize any person other than is
therein mentioned to be done or transacted.
CHAPTER 3: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
06-03-01   Short title
   
06-03-03   Authority and purpose
   
06-03-05   Definitions
   
06-03-07   License required; fee
   
06-03-09   Fixed place of business required
   
06-03-11   Duty to record transactions
   
06-03-13   Daily reports; suspect property
   
06-03-15   Duties upon notification of property reported stolen
   
06-03-17   Property as evidence
   
06-03-19   Pawnbrokers, sale of pledged property
   
06-03-21   Sales
   
06-03-23   Violations and penalty
§ 06-03-01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be recited and referred to as the
Pawnbrokers Ordinance.
(Ord. 2348, passed 10-2-2000)
§ 06-03-03 AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Authority. This chapter is adopted pursuant to Article 2, § 12 of the
State Constitution, and authorized by Idaho Code §§ 50-201, 50-302 and 50-307.
   (B)   Purpose. This chapter is intended to regulate pawnbrokers and to aid
law enforcement in the identification and the recovery of stolen property.
(Ord. 2348, passed 10-2-2000)
§ 06-03-05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Caldwell, an Idaho municipal corporation.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT. The City Police Department and its designees.
   MELTED METALS. Metals derived from metal junk or precious metals that have
been reduced to a melted state from other than ore or ingots which are produced
from ore that has not previously been processed.
   METAL JUNK. Any metal that has previously been milled, shaped, stamped or
forged and that is no longer useful in its original form, except precious
metals.
   NONMETAL JUNK. Any nonmetal, commonly discarded item that is worn out, or
has outlasted its usefulness as intended in its original form, except NONMETAL
JUNK does not include any item which has enhanced value because of its old age
and commonly recognized as an antique.
   PAWNBROKER. Every person, firm, association or corporation who makes it a
business to loan money on deposit or purchase personal property or other
valuables for the purpose of selling the same back again at a stipulated price
or who loans money secured by chattel mortgage or personal property, keeping
part thereof as mortgaged for all intents and purposes under this chapter.
   PERSON. Includes any natural person, individual, firm, partnership, joint
venture, association, concern, corporation, estate, trust, business trust,
receiver, syndicate or any other group or combination acting as a unit.
   PRECIOUS METALS. Gold, silver and platinum.
   TRANSACTION. A pledge, or the purchase of, or the trade of any item of
personal property by a pawnbroker from a member of the general public.
(Ord. 2348, passed 10-2-2000)
§ 06-03-07 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   Annual license; fee.
      (1)   License required. No person shall do business in the city as a
pawnbroker without first obtaining a license from the city and paying the
license fee set forth herein.
      (2)   License fee; license tax. The annual license processing fee for
each pawnbroker shall be as established by resolution of the City Council. This
fee is necessary to defray the costs from the investigation of the applicant
and the processing of the application. This annual license processing fee for a
pawnbroker’s license is in addition to the license tax imposed on pawnbrokers
by Idaho Code § 63-2303, as amended.
      (3)   Term of license. The license shall expire on December 31 of the
year in which it is issued, unless sooner revoked or suspended.
      (4)   Investigation. Each applicant is responsible for including with
their application a criminal history. The application will not be considered
unless such history and information is included. Moreover, the City Clerk, in
his or her discretion with good cause, may require additional information and
history from an applicant; including, without limitation, criminal history from
other states.
      (5)   Grounds for denial.
         (a)   Conviction of any felony within seven years prior to the
application may be grounds for denial of a license.
         (b)   Convictions of any misdemeanor involving the crime of theft,
willful concealment or similar crimes within seven years prior to the
application may be grounds for denial of a license.
      (6)   Prior license/permit denied, revoked or suspended. No license shall
be issued if the applicant has had any pawnbroker business license or other
similar permit or license denied, revoked or suspended by any city, county or
state or any other state or local agency within three years prior to the date
of the application.
      (7)   Application. All applications for pawnbroker licenses shall be
filed with the City Clerk.
      (8)   Age of applicant. No license shall be issued to any person who is
not 18 years of age or older.
   (B)   Denial of license. Whenever the City Clerk denies an application, the
Clerk shall specify in writing:
      (1)   The statutes, ordinances and standards used in evaluation of the
application;
      (2)   The reason for denial; and
      (3)   The action, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain the
license.
   (C)   Appeal. A person whose application is denied may appeal the denial
decision to the City Council by filing a written notice of appeal with the
Clerk of the City Council within 15 days of the date of the Clerk’s signed
denial decision. Failure to timely appeal the denial decision will be a waiver
of the right to appeal the denial decision. A timely filed appeal shall be
conducted in accordance with the procedural rules established by the contested
hearing procedures of the city code and the State Administrative Procedure Act,
being Idaho Code Title 67, Chapter 52.
   (D)   Revocation. Failure to meet or maintain any of the requirements of
this chapter is cause for revocation of an issued license by the City Clerk. A
person whose license is revoked may appeal the revocation pursuant to the
process outlined in division (C) above.
(Ord. 2348, passed 10-2-2000; Ord. 2780, passed 1-5-2009; Ord. 2951, passed 11-
18-2013)
§ 06-03-09 FIXED PLACE OF BUSINESS REQUIRED.
   No person may operate as a pawnbroker unless the person maintains a fixed
place of business within the city.
(Ord. 2348, passed 10-2-2000)
§ 06-03-11 DUTY TO RECORD TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   Maintenance of permanent record. It shall be the duty of every
pawnbroker doing business in the city to maintain in his or her place of
business an electronic permanent record, which shall be in such a manner
consistent with the software compatible with law enforcement’s equipment, and
shall include a record containing:
      (1)   The date of transaction;
      (2)   The name of the person or employee or the identification number of
the person or employee conducting the transaction;
      (3)   The name, date of birth, sex, height, weight, race, address of the
person with whom the transaction is made;
      (4)   A legal description of the property pledge, including the brand
name, serial number, model number by name, any initials or engravings and in
the case of firearms, the caliber, type of action and whether it is a pistol,
rifle or shotgun;
      (5)   The type and identifying number of the personal identification used
by the person with whom the transaction was made, which shall consist of a
valid driver’s license or identification card issued by any state, or any two
other pieces of identification, one of which shall contain a photograph or
description of the person identified. At all times, one piece of current
government issued picture identification will be required; and
      (6)   The nature of the transaction, a number identifying the
transaction, the store identification designed by law enforcement, or the name
and address of the business and the name of the person or employee conducting
the transaction, and the location of the property.
   (B)   Signature of person making transaction. The signature of the person
making the transaction shall be retained by the pawnbroker for a reasonable
period of time, unless otherwise authorized by law enforcement.
   (C)   Dealer’s license. Regarding any pawnshop pledging automobiles must
meet state requirements.
(Ord. 2348, passed 10-2-2000)
§ 06-03-13 DAILY REPORTS; SUSPECT PROPERTY.
   (A)   Transmittal to law enforcement. Every pawnbroker doing business in the
city shall furnish to law enforcement a full, true and correct transcript of
the record of all transactions conducted on the preceding date. These
transactions shall be recorded on such forms as may be provided and in such
format as may be required by law enforcement within a specified time not more
than 24 hours. This information shall be transmitted to law enforcement by
electronic data transfer, or by modem or similar device, or by delivery of
computer disks subject to requirements of and approval by law enforcement.
   (B)   Suspect property. If a pawnbroker has good cause to believe that any
property in his or her possession has been previously lost or stolen, the
pawnbroker shall promptly report that fact to law enforcement, together with
the name of the owner, if known, and the date when and the name of the person
from whom it was received.
   (C)   Inspections. Every pawnbroker shall, upon request of the City Police
Department, produce any records required to be kept pursuant to this chapter
and shall permit the City Police Department to examine the records, the
pawnbroker’s inventory and all property kept or stored therein. Any inspection
performed pursuant to this provision shall take place during the pawnbroker’s
regular and usual business hours.
(Ord. 2348, passed 10-2-2000)
§ 06-03-15 DUTIES UPON NOTIFICATION OF PROPERTY REPORTED STOLEN.
   (A)   Notification; identifying tag. Following notification from law
enforcement that an item of property has been reported as stolen, the
pawnbroker shall hold that property intact and safe from alteration, damage or
commingling. The pawnbroker shall place an identifying tag or other suitable
identification upon the property so held.
   (B)   Release. Property held shall not be released for 30 days from the date
of law enforcement notification, with a 30-day extension, unless release by
written consent of the law enforcement or by written order of a court of
competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   Verbal hold. In cases where law enforcement has placed a verbal hold
on an item, written notice must be given to the pawnbroker within ten business
days of making the verbal hold. If such written notice is not received within
that period of time by the pawnbroker, then the hold order will cease.
   (D)   Renewal notice. If an additional holding period is required, law
enforcement shall give the pawnbroker written notice, prior to the expiration
of the existing hold order.
   (E)   Effect of provisions. The provisions set forth in this section
supersede any other provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   Removal of hold. Law enforcement shall not place on hold any item of
personal property unless law enforcement reasonably suspects that the item of
personal property is a lost or stolen item. Any hold that is placed on an item
will be removed as soon as practicable if the item on hold is determined by law
enforcement not to be stolen or lost.
(Ord. 2348, passed 10-2-2000)
§ 06-03-17 PROPERTY AS EVIDENCE.
   (A)   Production for court/law enforcement. Whenever property that is in the
possession of a pawnbroker is subject to a hold and the property is required by
law enforcement in a criminal investigation, the pawnbroker, upon reasonable
notice, shall produce the property at reasonable times and places for law
enforcement or a court of competent jurisdiction or may deliver the property to
law enforcement upon the request of law enforcement placing the hold on the
property. In the event property is seized pursuant to this section, the
pawnbroker will be entitled to restitution in the criminal case.
   (B)   Enforcement receipt. Whenever any property is taken from a pawnbroker
which was alleged stolen property, law enforcement shall give the pawnbroker a
receipt for the property which shall contain a description of the property, the
reason for seizure and the names of the pawnbroker and the law enforcement
officer or designee receiving the property.
   (C)   Property in custody of law enforcement. Property, alleged to be lost,
stolen or embezzled, coming into the custody of law enforcement shall be held
by law enforcement subject to order of a magistrate as provided by Idaho Code
§§ 19-3801 through 19-3807, as amended.
(Ord. 2348, passed 10-2-2000)
§ 06-03-19 PAWNBROKERS, SALE OF PLEDGED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Repayment period. It shall be the duty of every pawnbroker, as herein
defined, to allow any person accepting a loan a period of 30 days in which to
repay the loan and reclaim the pawned merchandise before the same becomes
forfeitable if the property pawned is in the amount of $50 or less and 60 days
if more than $50.
   (B)   Written documents required for transactions. Every transaction entered
into by a pawnbroker shall be evidenced by written document, a copy of which
shall be furnished to the pledger. The document shall set forth the term of the
loan and the date on which the loan is due and payable.
(Ord. 2348, passed 10-2-2000)
§ 06-03-21 SALES.
   No personal property purchased by a pawnbroker at his or her place of
business shall be sold or removed from such place of business for a period of
at least ten days after being so purchased without written consent of the Chief
of Police.
(Ord. 2348, passed 10-2-2000)
§ 06-03-23 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly make, cause or allow
to be made any false entry or misstatement of any material matter in any book,
record, electronic permanent record or writing required.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to pledge or sell any goods,
chattels or effects, or any personal property leased or let to him or her by
any instrument in writing under a contract or purchase not yet fulfilled.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker to receive any property from a
person under the age of 18 years, or from any person who appears to be under
the influence of intoxicating liquor or drugs.
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2348, passed 10-2-2000)
CHAPTER 5: DOOR-TO-DOOR SALESPERSONS
Section
   
06-05-01   Definition
   
06-05-03   Licenses required
   
06-05-05   Exceptions
   
06-05-07   License application
   
06-05-08   Location restrictions
   
06-05-09   Prerequisite for peddling food
   
06-05-10   Investigation of applicant
   
06-05-11   License fee; license shall be carried
   
06-05-13   Unlawful conduct
   
06-05-15   Revocation of license
   
06-05-17   Penalties
§ 06-05-01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOOR-TO-DOOR SALESPERSON. Any person who goes up to a structure within a
residential district and takes any action to alert the occupants of said
person’s presence, while carrying, conveying or transporting goods, wares,
merchandise, food or farm products or provisions, offering and exposing the
same or any services for sale or making sales and delivering articles to
purchasers, or gathering information by survey, or other means, with the intent
that such information will or may be used for subsequent contact with the
consumer concerning the sale of any goods, wares, merchandise, food or farm
products or provisions, or any services. This chapter shall not apply to those
persons who leave fliers, pamphlets or handbills advertising goods or services
and inviting contact from the intended consumer, but who do not make direct
contact with the potential consumer. This chapter shall also not apply to
common carriers.
   PARADE ROUTE. The streets upon which a city sanctioned parade, per §
09-13-01, shall be traveling, and the area within 500 feet of the centerlines
of said streets. The parade route shall be deemed to exist for the 24 hours
immediately prior to the start of a parade, during a parade and for the 24
hours immediately following a parade.
   PEDDLER. Any person traveling from place to place, or from street to street,
carrying, conveying or transporting goods, wares, merchandise, food or farm
products or provisions, offering and exposing the same or any services for sale
or making sales and delivering articles to purchasers, or gathering information
by survey, or other means, with the intent that such information will or may be
used for subsequent contact with the consumer concerning the sale of any goods,
wares, merchandise, food or farm products or provisions, or any services. This
definition shall not apply to those persons who leave fliers, pamphlets or
handbills advertising goods or services and inviting contact from the intended
consumer, but who do not make direct contact with the potential consumer. This
definition shall not apply to common carriers.
(Ord. 2880, passed 8-1-2011; Ord. 3222, passed 7-1-2019)
§ 06-05-03 LICENSES REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any peddler or door-to-door salesperson, as the
same are herein defined, to engage in such business within the corporate limits
of the city without having first been issued a license by the City Clerk’s
office.
(Ord. 2749, passed 8-18-2008; Ord. 3222, passed 7-1-2019)
§ 06-05-05 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter do not apply to:
   (A)   Any sale under court order;
   (B)   An auction sale;
   (C)   Traveling salespersons, commercial travelers or the like who
exclusively or primarily sell to or solicit orders for future delivery from
local retailers, businesses, governments, schools or wholesale firms;
   (D)   The sale of farm or garden products under a farm stand, as defined in
§
10-01-10 of the zoning regulations;
   (E)   The sale of a newspaper subscription in which the seller is a person
engaged in both the delivery and sale of the newspaper;
   (F)   Contribution solicitation where the person being solicited to
contribute personally knows the identity of the person soliciting the
contribution, the name of the group or organization he or she represents and
the nature of the services performed or offered by the group or organization;
   (G)   The sale of admission by local school students to a function of their
school or fund-raising or community events sponsored by local service clubs
such as Elks, Kiwanis, Boy or Girl Scouts and the like;
   (H)   Any political group seeking funds or membership;
   (I)   Any solicitation of information for a telephone book or a city
directory by a company representative;
   (J)   A sale made pursuant to prior negotiations between the parties at a
business establishment at a fixed location where goods or services are offered
or exhibited for sale;
   (K)   A sale of goods, wares, merchandise and personal property of any
nature whatsoever for resale to or by a business establishment at a fixed
location where goods or services are offered or exhibited for sale;
   (L)   Any sales that are within the provisions provided within the home
occupation permit; and
   (M)   Any activity protected against regulation by any provision of the
United States Constitution or State Constitution.
(Ord. 2206, passed 10-6-1997; Ord. 2749, passed 8-18-2008; Ord. 2777, passed
11-17-2008)
§ 06-05-07 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for a license to be issued under the provisions of this
chapter shall be made to the City Clerk and shall state:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant and all persons associated
with him or her in his or her business;
      (2)   Whether the license is desired for a peddler or a door-to-door
salesperson;
      (3)   The specific type and scope of the business which the applicant
wishes to engage in; and
      (4)   A general description of the thing or things to be sold.
   (B)   Applicant will need to show proof of a state resale number.
   (C)   Each applicant must file with his or her application one recent
passport-sized photograph of himself of herself, a copy of which shall be
included on the license when issued, the original being retained with the
application filed with the City Clerk. Each licensee shall at all times have
his or her license with him or her and shall exhibit the same upon request.
   (D)   To determine the suitability of prospective applicants for a license
under this chapter, pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-3008 and to congressional
enactment Pub. Law No. 92-544, each applicant shall request from the state
police, Bureau of Criminal Identification, a fingerprint-based national
background check, understanding that said fingerprints will be submitted to the
Federal Bureau of Investigation, and directing that the results be sent
directly to the City Clerk. The City Clerk is authorized to receive said
criminal history information for the purpose of evaluating the applicant’s
fitness for licensing under this chapter. As required by state and federal law,
further dissemination or other use of the criminal history information is
prohibited. Provided, however, that any applicant who is under the age of 18 at
the time of application shall not be required to request said fingerprint-based
national background check, but, rather, shall be subjected to a locally
administered background check to be conducted by the City Clerk in conjunction
with the Chief of Police.
   (E)   If a vehicle will be used by the applicant in relation to any of the
activities covered by this chapter, either directly or indirectly, and
including simply in transportation to and from an area where the applicant will
be traveling on foot, then satisfactory proof of registration and current
insurance on said vehicle must be shown at the time of application. Where
multiple applicants will be sharing a single vehicle, such fact should be
stated on the application, and at least one of the applicants must produce the
required documentation at the time of application.
   (F)   If a motorized or non-motorized cart or unit is intended to be used in
any way by an individual as they engage in the activities licensed under this
title, a picture and description of said cart or unit shall be included with
the application.
   (G)   If the sale or advertising of the applicant’s goods is made from a
motor vehicle, then the applicant must submit an official state driver’s
license record, obtainable from the State Transportation Department, and issued
within 30 days prior to the City Clerk’s receipt of the application.
   (H)   If the applicant is a nonprofit entity, wishing to conduct fund-
raising activities within city rights-of-way, they may apply for a license
under this title by means of a separate application which shall be provided by
the City Clerk. To the extent that they would otherwise apply, the requirements
of this title or any other title of this code shall be made applicable to such
nonprofit activities on a case-by-case basis, subject to the discretion of the
City Clerk. Any license issued under this special provision shall be for a
period of time not exceeding six consecutive hours, and the license shall
specify the day or days on which said license may be exercised.
(Ord. 2850, passed 12-6-2010; Ord. 3003, passed 6-1-2015; Ord. 3222, passed 7-
1-2019; Ord. 3222-A, passed 9-3-2019)
§ 06-05-08 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No licensee shall have any right to any fixed, regular or established
location in a public street or right-of-way, nor shall he or she be permitted
to conduct his or her business in any congested area where his or her
operations might impede or inconvenience the public. The judgment of a police
officer is deemed conclusive as to whether the area is congested or the public
is impeded or inconvenienced. No business activity shall be carried on in any
area of the city by any licensee where such business activity is prohibited by
the city zoning code. No licensee shall be permitted to conduct his or her
business or trade in or on any city park, building or adjacent grounds.
   (B)   The plaza operator, as identified in the then controlling memorandum
of understanding for the overall supervision and management of the Indian Creek
Plaza, shall have the authority to authorize and control all peddling within
the area located between 5th Avenue, 10th Avenue, Union Pacific Railroad and
Blaine Street in the downtown area of the city, said control extending along
both sides of any street constituting a boundary of said area. The City Clerk
may override the aforementioned authority on a case-by-case basis. The plaza
operator shall require all peddlers to provide proof of appropriate insurance
to the plaza operator prior to commencing their peddling.
   (C)   No licensee shall operate within a parade route, unless prior approval
has been obtained through the Planning and Zoning Department for a temporary
vendor’s license, and thus allowing for business operations on private property
consequently located within a noted parade route.
(Ord. 2253, 10-19-1998; Ord. 3222, passed 7-1-2019; Ord. 3222-A, passed 9-3-
2019; Ord. 3496, passed 5-2-2023)
§ 06-05-09 PREREQUISITE FOR PEDDLING FOOD.
   When the applicant proposes to peddle any food or product for human
consumption, certification by the Southwest Health District is required prior
to issuance of a license.
(Ord. 2206, passed 10-6-1997)
§ 06-05-10 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT.
   (A)   Upon receipt of application, or application renewal, the City Clerk
shall refer the application to the Chief of Police, who shall cause an
investigation to determine the validity and completeness of information
presented on the application. The Chief of Police shall endorse upon the
application the findings of the investigation and return it to the City Clerk
within five working days. Where an application for renewal of a license is
involved, and the application is completed and submitted prior to the
expiration of the previous license, and where the City Clerk has received no
complaints or allegations of any violation of this title or other laws by the
applicant, the Clerk may approve the renewal application administratively once,
without referral of the application to the Chief of Police and without the
submittal of an additional fingerprint-based national background check. Any
subsequent application for renewal shall be treated in all respects as a new
application, with referral of the application to the Chief of Police and must
be accompanied by a newly issued fingerprint-based national background check.
   (B)   No person shall be issued a license when that person:
      (1)   Would not be of sufficient age to be considered lawfully employable
under Idaho Code Title 44, Chapter 13, or other applicable state or federal
laws;
      (2)   Is required to register as a sex offender, pursuant to the Sexual
Offender Registration Notification and Community Right-to-Know Act, Idaho Code
§§ 18-8301 et seq., and/or the Juvenile Sex Offender Registration Notification
and Community Right-to-Know Act, Idaho Code §§ 18-8401 et seq.;
      (3)   Has ever been convicted of or pled guilty to any violent felony
offense, including, but not limited to, aggravated assault, aggravated battery,
robbery, homicide, aggravated arson, kidnapping, stalking, rape or any felony
of a sexual nature;
      (4)   Has been, within ten years prior to the date of making application
for such license, arrested for, charged with, convicted of, paid any fines,
been placed on probation, received a deferred sentence, received a withheld
judgment, completed any sentence of confinement or suffered the forfeiture of a
bond for any felony, or for any misdemeanor which, if committed in the state,
would have constituted a felony;
      (5)   Has been, within five years prior to the date of making application
for such license, arrested for, charged with, convicted of, paid any fine, been
placed on probation, received a deferred sentence, received a withheld
judgment, completed any sentence of confinement or suffered the forfeiture of a
bond for any misdemeanor, involving:
         (a)   The use of force against the persons or property of another;
         (b)   The threat of force against the persons or property of another;
         (c)   Theft or larceny;
         (d)   The use, possession or sale of illicit drugs;
         (e)   Possession of a concealed weapon;
         (f)   Illicit sexual, lewd or obscene activity or materials,
including, but not limited to, violations of Idaho Code §§ 18-919, 18-1515, 18-
4103 through 18-4105 or 18-4116;
         (g)   Stalking, telephone harassment or violations of protection
orders or do not contact orders; or
         (h)   Contributing to the delinquency of a minor.
      (6)   Has, at the time of such application, an outstanding warrant;
      (7)   Has had a similar license revoked by the city or any other city of
this state or of the United States within the preceding five years; or
      (8)   Has violated this chapter, or any similar ordinance in any other
city of this state or of the United States, within the preceding years, by
acting as a peddler or door-to-door salesperson without first obtaining the
requisite license.
   (C)   If a person fails to qualify for a license for the sole reason that
they have been arrested for or charged with a felony or enumerated misdemeanor
under divisions (B)(4) or (B)(5) above, and the person can provide proof to the
satisfaction of the Police Chief that such arrest did not result in charges or
any charges filed were dismissed or resulted in acquittal, the city shall issue
a license if the person otherwise qualifies.
(Ord. 2850, passed 12-6-2010; Ord. 2880, passed 8-1-2011; Ord. 2915, passed 9-
17-2012; Ord. 3003, passed 6-1-2015; Ord. 3222, passed 7-1-2019)
§ 06-05-11 LICENSE FEE; LICENSE SHALL BE CARRIED.
   (A)   A per person license fee shall be paid in an amount established by
resolution of the City Council, valid for 12 months. The fee for an application
for renewal of a license shall be as set forth by resolution of the City
Council.
   (B)   Every person licensed under this section shall have with him or her
while engaged in such business the license received by him or her from the City
Clerk and shall produce the same at the request of any city official or at the
request of any individual within the city to whom he or she is exhibiting his
or her goods or selling or attempting to sell same. The license shall be
exhibited in a conspicuous place if the licensee is using a vehicle.
(Ord. 2850, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 06-05-13 UNLAWFUL CONDUCT.
   No licensee shall:
   (A)   Misrepresent the purpose of solicitation;
   (B)   Misrepresent affiliation of those engaged in the solicitation;
   (C)   Continue efforts to solicit from a person once that person informed
the solicitor that he or she does not wish to give anything or to buy anything
from that solicitor;
   (D)   Represent the issuance of any license under this chapter as an
endorsement or recommendation of the solicitation;
   (E)   Enter upon any premises when the same is posted with a sign stating
“No Peddlers Allowed” or “No Solicitation Allowed” or other words to such
effect; or
   (F)   Knowingly make any false statement on an application for a license.
(Ord. 2206, passed 10-6-1997)
§ 06-05-15 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The city has the power to revoke any license granted in accordance with this
chapter for any of the following causes:
   (A)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements contained in the
application for license;
   (B)   Fraud or misrepresentation or false statements made in the course of
conducting the business or trade;
   (C)   Any other violation of this chapter;
   (D)   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; and
   (E)   Conducting business in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as to
constitute a breach of the peace or to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or general welfare of the public.
(Ord. 2206, passed 10-6-1997)
§ 06-05-17 PENALTIES.
   (A)   This division (A) shall not apply to licensed peddlers and door-to-
door salespersons operating within parade routes. Any individual licensed under
this chapter who fails to abide by the provisions of this chapter shall have
any license issued under this chapter revoked, and said individual shall be
disqualified from applying for any new license for a period of 365 days. Any
individual found to be engaging in any activities requiring a license under
this chapter without having first obtained a license shall be issued a warning.
Any individual who has been issued a warning under this section, or whose
license has been suspended under this section, who is found to be engaging in
any activity requiring a license under this chapter, shall be issued a fine in
the amount of $100, except that an individual who has already received a fine
under this section, and is found to be engaging in any activities requiring a
license under this chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable as set
out in §
01-01-05.
   (B)   Any licensed peddler or door-to-door salesperson found to be operating
within a parade route shall be issued a warning. Any peddler or door-to-door
salesperson found to be operating within a parade route, if said individual has
received a prior warning under this section, shall have any license issued
under this chapter revoked, and said individual shall not be issued any new
license under this chapter for a period of 365 days.
   (C)   No individual or entity shall cause or permit any employee, agent,
contractor, principal or other affiliated entity or individual to violate the
provisions of this chapter. A first violation of this division (C) shall result
in the issuance of a warning to said individual or entity and shall result in
notification being made to the state agency responsible for the licensing or
registration of the business of said individual or entity. After the issuance
of said warning, each recurring violation of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 3222, passed 7-1-2019)
CHAPTER 7: LIQUOR, BEER AND WINE REGULATIONS
Section
   
06-07-01   Purpose and intent
   
06-07-03   Applicability
   
06-07-05   Definitions
   
06-07-07   License required
   
06-07-09   Application for licenses
   
06-07-11   Application forms
   
06-07-13   Qualifications of licensee
   
06-07-15   Investigation of applicant
   
06-07-17   Licensee to report changes
   
06-07-19   Renewal of license
   
06-07-21   Period for which license is issued
   
06-07-23   License fees
   
06-07-25   Revocation of license
   
06-07-27   Denial of application, suspension and/or revocation of license
   
06-07-29   Notice of hearing
   
06-07-31   Hours of sale
   
06-07-33   Right of inspection
   
06-07-35   Alcohol beverage catering permit
   
06-07-37   Repeal and saving clause
   
06-07-39   Severability
§ 06-07-01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   This chapter establishes minimum requirements for the licensing of the sale
of alcoholic beverages for the protection of public health, welfare and safety;
and for the orderly, moral and responsible conduct of the business of selling
and distributing alcoholic beverages; and for the general welfare, all within
the boundaries of the city.
(Ord. 1916, passed 11-4-1991)
§ 06-07-03 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter shall govern the issuance, renewal, transfer
and/or revocation of licenses and other matters pertaining to licenses for the
sale of liquor by the drink at retail, wine by the drink and retail wine
license, the sale of beer, including bottled and canned beer, none of which is
to be consumed on the premises where sold, and including the selling of beer
for consumption on the premises, draft and bottled or canned beer, or draft
only, and liquor catering permits, as the same are defined in this chapter.
(Ord. 1916, passed 11-4-1991)
§ 06-07-05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Includes any individual, firm, copartnership, association,
corporation or any group or combination, acting as a unit, and the plural as
well as the singular number unless the intent to give a more limited meaning is
disclosed by the context.
   BAR/TAVERN/LOUNGE. A building where alcoholic beverages are sold for
consumption on the premises, not including restaurants as defined herein.
   BEER. Any beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
decoction of barley, malt and/or ingredients in drinkable water.
   BEER RETAILER, OFF-PREMISES LICENSE. A license issued by the City Clerk
authorizing a person to sell only bottled or canned beer, none of which is
consumed on the premises where sold.
   BEER RETAILER, ON-PREMISES LICENSE. A license issued by the City Clerk
authorizing a person to sell, for consumption on the premises, draft beer and
bottled or canned beer, or draft beer only.
   INTERDICTED PERSON. A person to whom the sale of liquor, beer and/or wine is
prohibited under the laws of the state.
   LICENSE. A license issued by the City Clerk to a qualified person, under
which it shall be lawful for the licensee to engage in activities concerning
the sale and/or distribution of liquor, beer and/or wine, as the case may be,
as provided in this chapter.
   LICENSEE. The person to whom a license is issued under the provisions of
this chapter.
   LIQUOR. An alcoholic beverage made by distillation rather than by
fermentation.
   LIQUOR BY THE DRINK AT RETAIL LICENSE. A license issued by the City Clerk
authorizing a person to serve and sell liquor retail by the drink at a party or
convention which is off the site of the licensed premises.
   PREMISES. The place of building in which the sale of beer at retail, sale of
liquor by the drink at retail and/or wine by the drink at retail for
consumption on the premises as is authorized under the provisions of this
chapter.
   RESTAURANT. A premises where the principal business conducted on the
premises is the selling of food prepared on the premises for consumption on or
off the premises. The premises shall also, as a minimum, be equipped with
operational equipment hereinafter listed in Group 1 and/or Group 2; and which
equipment must be operational during business hours:
      (1)   Group 1. A type one grease exhaust hood as defined in the current
adopted edition of the International Mechanical Code and International Fire
Code, a utensil and equipment sink and a hand wash sink; and
      (2)   Group 2. A three-compartment dishwashing sink or commercial
dishwashing equipment, a hand wash sink and multi-use (not single service)
dishware and utensils to serve a minimum of 30 people.
   RETAIL WINE LICENSE. A license issued by the City Clerk authorizing a person
to sell wine at retail for consumption off the licensed premises.
   RETAILER. Any person engaged in the distribution of beer or wine to the
customer for consumption by the customer upon licensed premises, or for sale
for consumption not on the premises.
   WINE. An alcoholic beverage containing not more than 14% alcohol by volume
obtained by the fermentation of the natural sugar content of fruits or other
agricultural products containing sugar.
   WINE BY THE DRINK LICENSE. A license issued by the City Clerk authorizing a
person to sell wine by the individual glass or opened bottle at retail for
consumption on the premises only.
(Ord. 1916, passed 11-4-1991; Ord. 2842, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 06-07-07 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person without first having obtained a license under
the provisions of this chapter to:
   (A)   Sell liquor by the drink at retail for consumption on the licensed
premises;
   (B)   Serve and sell liquor at retail by the drink at a party or convention
which is off the site of the licensed premises;
   (C)   Sell only bottled or canned beer, none of which is consumed on the
premises where sold;
   (D)   Sell for consumption on the premises draft beer, bottled beer and/or
canned beer and/or draft beer only;
   (E)   Sell wine at retail for consumption off the premises;
   (F)   Sell wine by the individual glass or opened bottle at retail for
consumption on the premises only; and
   (G)   Otherwise manufacture, bottle, possess for resale or distribute or
sell wine and/or beer.
(Ord. 1916, passed 11-4-1991)
§ 06-07-09 APPLICATION FOR LICENSES.
   Prior to the issuance of a license, as required in §
06-07-07, the applicant shall file with the City Clerk an application, in
writing, which application shall be on the official application form approved
by the City Council, which shall be in writing, signed by the applicant and
containing such information and statements relative to the applicant and the
premises where either liquor, beer and/or wine is to be sold.
(Ord. 1916, passed 11-4-1991)
§ 06-07-11 APPLICATION FORMS.
   All applications for a license shall require the applicant to set forth the
following information:
   (A)   A detailed description of the premises for which a license is sought
for a bar, tavern or lounge, its location, and a plot and floor plan depicting
the following:
      (1)   Floor plan. The floor plan shall be drawn to a scale of one-eighth
of an inch representing one foot. The floor plan will include game machine
areas, seating areas, exit paths, counters, bars, restrooms, offices, storage
rooms and or space, kitchens, windows and doors and the direction of swing of
the door and shall indicate (not to scale) the location of emergency lights and
exit signs. The floor plan shall include all floors occupied by the applicant
and any basement or floor levels located below; and
      (2)   Plot plan. Drawn to a scale of not less than one-sixteenth of an
inch representing one foot. The plot plan shall include the structure being
used, parking, fencing, storage or trash enclosures, lighting locations, street
entrances and walkways.
   (B)   The names and addresses of all persons who will have any financial
interest in any business to be carried on, in or upon the licensed premises,
whether such interest results from open loans, mortgages, conditional sales
contracts, silent partnerships, trusts or any other basis than upon trade
account incurred in the ordinary course of business and the amounts and nature
of such interests including the shareholders with names and addresses provided;
   (C)   If the premises to be licensed are not owned by the applicant, then it
shall be incumbent upon the applicant to furnish a certified copy of the lease
by which applicant will occupy the premises and that the lessor has consented
to the sale of liquor, beer or wine on the premises, and the applicant shall
furnish evidence of the lease by which the applicant is entitled to possession
of the property;
   (D)   The name and address of the applicant shall include, if the applicant
is a partnership, whether a general or limited partnership, and if the
applicant is a corporation, the officers, directors and principal stockholders
of the corporation;
   (E)   All venues functioning as an event center must provide a final copy of
their submitted and approved security plan through the state police; and
   (F)   Any ticketed event with an anticipated attendance of over 250
individuals shall be required to equip the event with a licensed patrol
service, as defined in §
06-21-01.
(Ord. 1916, passed 11-4-1991; Ord. 3531, passed 9-5-2023)
§ 06-07-13 QUALIFICATIONS OF LICENSEE.
   No license shall be issued to any applicant for a new, renewed or
transferred license who:
   (A)   Is not a bona fide owner of such business;
   (B)   Proposes a premises for the sale of liquor, beer or wine on the
premises that does not conform to the laws and regulations of the state and to
the ordinances of the county or the city which are applicable thereto and which
relate to public health, safety and planning and zoning;
   (C)   Is prohibited from being issued a license because of the occurrence of
one or more convictions, events or activities, as set forth below. If one of
the following items applies to the applicant, or any partner, manager or
officer of said applicant (referred to sometimes hereinafter collectively as
“applicant”), then a license shall not be issued to said applicant for a period
of three years following the occurrence of the event, conviction or activity
described. If two of the following apply to the applicant, then a license shall
not be issued to said applicant for a period of three to ten years following
the occurrence of the most recent event, conviction or activity described,
depending upon the severity of the situation and as determined within the sound
discretion of the City Clerk. If three or more of the following apply to the
applicant, the City Clerk shall deny the issuance of the license to said
applicant for a period of time deemed appropriate in the City Clerk’s
discretion, but in no event less than five years following the most recent
occurrence of any event, conviction or activity described in the following
items. The City Clerk shall have the authority and discretion, should the
situation be deemed sufficiently severe, to permanently deny the issuance of a
license to any applicant to whom three or more of the following are found to
apply:
      (1)   The applicant has been convicted and/or been granted a withheld
judgment for any crime that is defined as a felony in the jurisdiction in which
the judgment was entered and/or has paid any fine and/or completed any sentence
whether by confinement, probation and/or parole for any said felony;
      (2)   The applicant has been convicted of the violation of any law or
regulation of the state, or of the United States, governing or prohibiting the
sale of alcoholic beverages or intoxicating liquor, or who forfeited or
suffered the forfeiture of a bond for their appearance to answer charges to any
such violation;
      (3)   The applicant has been convicted of driving a motor vehicle under
the influence of alcohol, drugs or any other intoxicating substances as defined
in the jurisdiction in which the judgment was entered;
      (4)   The applicant has engaged in the operation, or has interest
therein, of any house or place for the purpose of prostitution, or has engaged
in the operation of any house or premises within the city limits of the city
which has been declared and found to have been a moral nuisance as defined by
this code or state law;
      (5)   The applicant has, subsequent to the effective date of this
chapter, been convicted in any jurisdiction or received a withheld judgment for
any crime concerning the possession of any controlled substances;
      (6)   The applicant has, for violation of any law or regulation, had a
similar license revoked by any jurisdiction granting the license and/or had
their license revoked by the state or county; or
      (7)   The applicant fails to report the occurrence of any of the
foregoing events, convictions or activities either when they occur or when
making application for a new, renewed or transferred license.
   (D)   Who is under the age of 19 years;
   (E)   Proposes to license a premises for the sale of liquor by the drink at
retail, for consumption on the licensed premises, to serve and sell liquor at
retail by the drink at a party or convention which is off the site of the
licensed premises, to sell for consumption on the premises draft beer and
bottled or canned beer or draft beer only and/or to sell wine by the individual
glass or open bottle at retail for consumption on the premises that is
conducted for pleasure or profit that is within 300 feet of any public school,
church or other place of worship, or college, measured in a straight line from
the nearest corner of said building to the nearest entrance of the licensed
premises, except with the approval of a special use permit by the City Council
where permitted in Title 10 of this code. This provision does not apply to
licensed premises which preexisted the public school, church or other places of
worship or college;
   (F)   Has a bar/tavern/lounge where parking lot lighting levels have not
been designed, installed and maintained at a level of at least one FOOT-CANDLE,
which is defined as a unit of measurement of illuminance on a surface at ground
level equal to one lumen per square foot;
   (G)   Proposes a licensed premises that is a dangerous building, as defined
in the current adopted edition of the Uniform Code for the Abatement of
Dangerous Buildings, as adopted by the city;
   (H)   Submits an application which shall contain a false material statement
knowingly made;
   (I)   Allows conduct to occur on the licensed premises which is a moral
nuisance as defined by the laws of the state and/or the ordinances of the city;
   (J)   Allows the licensed premises to be frequented by intoxicated and/or
disorderly persons, or if the licensed premises is frequented by persons
convicted of crimes of violence and/or controlled substances, and/or lewd or
lascivious conduct;
   (K)   Manages and/or operates the licensed premises in such a way as to be a
nuisance to surrounding businesses by reason of the conduct of employees or
clientele of the licensed premises, where said employees or clientele engage in
lewd and/or violent and/or disorderly behavior; and
   (L)   Proposes a licensed premises for which a license has already been
issued. No premises may have more than one license issued.
(Ord. 2773, passed 11-3-2008; Ord. 2842, passed 8-16-2010; Ord. 2874, passed 3-
21-2011; Ord. 3437, passed 8-4-2022; Ord. 3699, passed 7-7-2025)
§ 06-07-15 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT.
   (A)   Upon receiving an application for a new license, or an application for
license renewal or an application for license transfer, the office of the City
Clerk, City Building Official, Police Chief and Fire Marshal of the city shall
investigate the statements and representation contained in the application,
shall inspect the premises where the applicant proposes to do business and make
such other further investigations as may be deemed proper to ascertain whether
the applicant conforms to all of the requirements of this chapter. All of such
reports and findings shall be submitted to the City Clerk, who shall then
decide whether or not to grant or deny the request for a license.
   (B)   In the event the City Clerk shall deny an application, the City Clerk
must specify the following in writing:
      (1)   The statute, ordinances and/or standards used to evaluate;
      (2)   Specify the reasons for the denial;
      (3)   The actions, if any, the applicant could take to obtain the
license, transfer or renewal;
      (4)   Decisions of the City Clerk may be appealed to the City Council
pursuant to the contested hearing procedures ordinance, which appeal must be
filed within 15 days of the date of mailing which shall be made by return
receipt requested and/or by registered mail and/or by delivery of the decision
of the City Clerk to the applicant; and
      (5)   The City Council shall, within 30 days of the final decision of the
City Clerk, make a decision of the appeal. In the event the City Council should
deny any application, the City Council shall specify in writing those matters
set forth in divisions (B)(1), (B)(2) and (B)(3) above.
(Ord. 1916, passed 11-4-1991)
§ 06-07-17 LICENSEE TO REPORT CHANGES.
   If, during the period of any license issued under this chapter, any change
takes place in licensee’s circumstances relating to the licensee’s
qualifications to hold a license and/or in relationship to the floor and/or
plot plan, the licensee shall forthwith make a verified report of such change
including a new floor plan or plot plan if applicable to the change in
circumstances.
(Ord. 1916, passed 11-4-1991)
§ 06-07-19 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   Request for license renewal shall be submitted to the City Clerk on a
renewal application form provided by that office. The renewal application shall
be filed with the City Clerk by April 1 of each and every year. The renewal
application shall include any changes, modifications or alterations to the
nature or operational characteristics of the business. Failure to provide a
complete and accurate application in advance of the April 1 deadline shall
cause delay in processing the application and shall result in a fine of $50 for
each day after April 1 the request for license renewal is filed. The City Clerk
will not issue a license until all fines and fees are paid in full.
(Ord. 2408, passed 1-22-2002)
§ 06-07-21 PERIOD FOR WHICH LICENSE IS ISSUED.
   All licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall run from June
1 through May 31. All such licenses shall expire at 12:00 a.m. on May 31 of the
year in which they shall be issued, notwithstanding the fact that such license
may have been issued after June 1.
(Ord. 2408, passed 1-22-2002)
§ 06-07-23 LICENSE FEES.
   An applicant shall be charged by the City Clerk the following application
and license fees to be payable at the time the license is issued. All license
fees shall be paid to the General Fund of the city:
   (A)   Liquor by the drink at retail license. The maximum fee allowed by the
state per annum for the license year; provided, however, that if the license be
issued for less than a full calendar year, the license fee shall be prorated as
of the actual months of issuance, but in no event for less than six months;
   (B)   Liquor catering permit. The maximum fee allowed by the state for each
day the permit is to be effective;
   (C)   Beer retailer, on-premises consumption license. The maximum fee
allowed by the state per annum for the license year; provided, however, that if
the license be issued for less than a full calendar year, the license fee shall
be prorated as of the actual months of issuance, but in no event for less than
six months;
   (D)   Beer retailer, packaged beer license, not to be consumed on the
premises. The maximum fee allowed by the state per annum for the license year;
provided, however, that if the license be issued for less than a full calendar
year, the license fee shall be prorated as of the actual months of issuance,
but in no event for less than six months;
   (E)   Wine by the drink license. The maximum fee allowed by the state per
annum for the license year; provided, however, should the license be issued for
less than a full calendar year, the license fee shall be prorated in accordance
with the actual months of issuance, but in no event for less than six months;
   (F)   Wine retailer license. The maximum fee allowed by the state per annum
for the license year; provided, however, should the license be issued for less
than a full calendar year, the license fee shall be prorated in accordance with
the actual months of issuance, but in no event for less than six months;
   (G)   Transfer fee. An amount established by resolution of the City Council;
and
   (H)   Refund. In the event the City Clerk should reject any application for
license renewal or transfer and there is no appeal of the decision of the
Clerk, the City Clerk, following the time for the period for which an appeal
may be filed, shall refund the amount of the license fee to the applicant which
was submitted with the application.
(Ord. 2780, passed 1-5-2009)
§ 06-07-25 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   When the City Clerk suspends, revokes or refuses to renew a license issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter for a violation or failure to comply
with the provisions of this chapter, the City Clerk shall notify the licensee
of the City Clerk’s intent to suspend, revoke or refuse to renew, which notice
shall be in writing and shall contain the reasons for such action and shall set
forth those matters specified in §
06-07-15(B)(1) through (B)(3).
(Ord. 1916, passed 11-4-1991)
§ 06-07-27 DENIAL OF APPLICATION, SUSPENSION AND/OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The City Clerk shall:
   (A)   Deny an application of any applicant who does not meet the
qualifications of §
06-07-13, unless the applicant has a license that is subject to a term of
suspension and the term of the suspension has not been completed, in which case
a license may be issued subject to the suspension and the applicant complying
with the qualifications of §
06-07-13 within the same period of the suspension;
   (B)   Revoke the license of any licensee who does not meet the
qualifications to hold a license as set forth in §
06-07-13(A), (B) and/or (H), and/or denies access for inspection conducted
pursuant to §
06-07-33;
   (C)   Suspend the license at any time, during the period for which a license
is issued, wherein the licensee is unable to meet the qualifications to hold a
license as set forth in §
06-07-13(B), (E), (F) and/or (G). In the event the licensee is able to come
into compliance with the requirements of said provisions, then the suspension
shall be terminated. No suspension can be for a period greater than 180 days.
In the event the licensee does not come into compliance in the period of the
suspension, the license shall be immediately revoked by the terms of the
suspension;
   (D)   Suspend the license, for a period of up to one week per event, of any
licensee in the event of circumstances occurring upon the licensed premises
which are disqualifications from holding a license as defined in §
06-07-13(J) and (K), or in the event a licensee violates the provisions of §
06-07-31 and/or interferes and/or impedes an inspection conducted under §
06-07-33, and/or fails to comply with §
06-07-17. In the event the licensee does not come into compliance within the
period of the suspension, the license shall be immediately revoked by the terms
of the suspension. In the event the licensee has received three previous
suspensions within a license year, the Clerk shall revoke the license; and
   (E)   When the City Clerk determines to suspend a license pursuant to
division (D) above, the affected licensee may petition the Clerk once per
license year prior to the effective date of the suspension requesting that a
monetary payment be allowed in lieu of the license suspension. If the Clerk
determines such payment to be consistent with the purpose of the laws for the
state and the ordinances of the city and in the public interest, the Clerk
shall establish a monetary payment in an amount not to exceed $5,000. The
licensee may reject the payment amount determined by the Clerk, and instead be
subject to the suspension provision of this division (E). Upon payment of the
amount established, the Clerk shall cancel the suspension period. The Clerk
shall cause any payment to be paid to the General Fund of the city.
(Ord. 1916, passed 11-4-1991)
§ 06-07-29 NOTICE OF HEARING.
   Whenever information is submitted to or shall come to the attention of any
official, department head or employee of the city, that a licensee has
committed any act rendering the licensee’s license subject to suspension and/or
revocation, the official, department head or employee, as the case may be,
shall report such information to the City Clerk in writing. In the event it
appears to the City Clerk, after having received such report, that there are
grounds for the suspension and/or revocation of a license, after having
conducted a reasonable investigation into the matter, the City Clerk shall
propose to suspend or terminate the license. The Clerk shall send to the
licensee a notice containing the findings required by §
06-07-15. The notice shall comply with §
01-05-07, and the licensee shall then have the right to appeal the decision of
the Clerk to the City Council pursuant to the provisions of the City of
Caldwell Contested Hearing Procedure Ordinance.
(Ord. 1916, passed 11-4-1991)
§ 06-07-31 HOURS OF SALE.
   (A)   Liquor. No liquor shall be sold, offered for sale or given away upon
any licensed premises, and all liquor not sealed in bottles must be located in
a separate room or cabinet during the following hours:
      (1)   Memorial Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day from 1:00 a.m. to
10:00 a.m. the following day;
      (2)   On any other day between 1:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m.;
      (3)   Any patron present on the licensed premises after the sale of
liquor has stopped, as provided in division (A)(2) above, shall have a
reasonable time, not to exceed 30 minutes, to consume any beverages already
served; and
      (4)   Any person who consumes or intentionally permits the consumption of
any liquor upon a licensed premises after the time provided for in division (A)
(3) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Beer/wine. It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person in
any place licensed to sell beer and/or wine, or where beer and/or wine is sold
to be consumed on the premises, to sell or permit to be consumed on the
premises, beer and/or wine as the same is defined by law, between the hours of
1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. and during the following times.
      (1)   Any patron present on the licensed premises after the sale of beer
has stopped as provided in this division (B) shall have a reasonable time, not
to exceed 30 minutes, to consume any beverage already served.
      (2)   Any person who consumes or intentionally permits consumption of
beer and/or wine upon a licensed premises after the time provided for in this
division (B) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1916, passed 11-4-1991; Ord. 2842, passed 8-16-2010)
§ 06-07-33 RIGHT OF INSPECTION.
   The City Clerk, the City Fire Marshal, City Building Official, city police
and any other peace officer or designee of said officials or officers shall
have the right at any time to conduct an inspection of the premises of any
licensee for the purpose of investigating whether or not the licensee is in
compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 1916, passed 11-4-1991)
§ 06-07-35 ALCOHOL BEVERAGE CATERING PERMIT.
   (A)   An alcohol beverage catering permit is a permit issued pursuant to
this section which authorizes the permit holder to dispense, serve or sell
liquor, beer or wine by the drink at a party, special event or convention, but
said license shall not exceed five consecutive days upon obtaining an alcohol
beverage catering permit, with an option to request one permit extension on the
same terms and conditions as the original permit, which extension may be issued
or denied at the sole and absolute discretion of the original issuing entity.
An alcohol beverage catering permit shall be limited to authorization to sell
or dispense liquor or beer or wine, or any combination thereof, based upon the
type of license which the applicant possesses. In addition:
      (1)   A permit shall not be issued/obtained to a person, or for the
benefit of another person, attempting to circumvent established alcohol
licensing procedures, i.e., operating two separate establishments under one
license or for the benefit of a person whose alcohol license has been revoked
or canceled; and
      (2)   No location may have more than 24 days in any calendar year where
alcohol is served pursuant to a catering permit or permits.
   (B)   Applications for a catering permit under this section shall be made to
the City Clerk upon the form prescribed by the Chief of Police, which shall
contain the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant and the number of the
applicant’s state liquor, beer or wine license and the applicant’s county and
city liquor, beer or wine license number. An alcohol beverage catering permit
shall be limited to authorization to sell liquor or beer or wine, or any
combination thereof, based upon the type of license which the applicant
possesses;
      (2)   The dates and hours during which the permit is to be effective, not
to exceed five consecutive days;
      (3)   The names of the organizations, groups or persons sponsoring the
event; and
      (4)   The address at which the liquor, beer or wine is to be served with
a detailed description or diagram of the location where the alcoholic beverages
are to be served and sold.
   (C)   The application shall be verified by the applicant and filed with the
City Clerk at least five business days prior to the day on which the event for
which the permit is requested will occur. A filing fee in the maximum amount
allowed by the state for each day the permit is to be effective shall be paid
to the City Clerk which shall not be refunded in any event.
   (D)   Upon the filing of an application, the City Clerk shall, upon
receiving approval or denial from the Chief of Police and Fire Chief, approve
or disapprove the application and indicate the determination on the face of the
application by endorsement signed by the City Clerk. Copies of the application,
permit and endorsements shall be retained by the Clerk. The Clerk shall forward
copies of said document to the Alcohol Beverage Control Department of the state
police.
      (1)   The Chief of Police and Chief of Fire may recommend the catering
permit be issued with conditions. The city may consider factors such as the
anticipated number of participants, the location of the venue described for the
catering permit, pedestrian and vehicular traffic, the occurrence of other
events in the area at the same time, ingress or egress of customers to the
venue and surrounding businesses, the presence of minors and other related and
relevant factors.
      (2)   Conditions imposed may include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Posting signs;
         (b)   Hiring additional security personnel at the applicant’s expense;
         (c)   Hiring trained alcohol servers;
         (d)   Reducing the number of dates or times for which the permit is
issued;
         (e)   Ensuring compliance with the city’s fire code and access of
emergency vehicles and personnel; and
         (f)   Maintenance of the venue in a specified manner, including
restricted area and access points.
   (E)   In the event the Clerk shall deny an application, the Clerk must
specify the following in writing:
      (1)   The statute, ordinance and/or standards used to evaluate;
      (2)   Specify the reasons for the denial; and
      (3)   The actions, if any, the applicant could take to obtain the
license, transfer or renewal.
   (F)   Decisions of the City Clerk may be appealed to the City Council
pursuant to the “contested matters procedure ordinance” (see
Title 1, Chapter 5 of this code), which appeal must be filed within 15 days of
the date of mailing and/or delivery of the decision of the City Clerk to the
applicant.
   (G)   The City Council shall, within 30 days of the final decision of the
City Clerk, make a decision on the appeal. In the event the Council should deny
any application, the Council shall specify, in writing, the reasons as set
forth in division (E) above.
   (H)   The City Council, by the enactment of this chapter, does hereby
designate the City Clerk as its duly authorized agent to act on behalf of the
Council, except on appeal, in the granting of these permits.
(Ord. 1916, passed 11-4-1991; Ord. 2780, passed 1-5-2009; Ord. 3061, passed 6-
20-2016; Ord. 3157, passed 7-2-2018; Ord. 3230, passed 8-19-2019; Ord. 3390,
passed 12-20-2021)
§ 06-07-37 REPEAL AND SAVING CLAUSE.
   Previous provisions of this code pertaining to beer regulations, liquor and
sale of wine shall, after this chapter is in full force and effect, be
repealed; except, that said provisions shall apply, govern and regulate all
licenses issued thereunder and shall govern the revocation of any license
issued thereunder; but said provisions shall not apply, govern and/or regulate
any license required under this chapter to be issued.
(Ord. 1916, passed 11-4-1991)
§ 06-07-39 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any section, clause, sentence or provision of this chapter be held
invalid for any reason, such holding or decree shall not be construed as
affecting the validity of any of the remaining portions hereof, it being
declared that the City Council would have adopted the remainder of this
chapter, notwithstanding the invalidity of any such section, clause, sentence
or provisions.
(Ord. 1916, passed 11-4-1991)
CHAPTER 9: TREE TRIMMERS
Section
   
06-09-01   License required
   
06-09-03   Application for license
   
06-09-05   License fees
§ 06-09-01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business of planting, pruning
or removal of a public tree or shrub without being licensed and certified as
required by
Article 8 of the zoning regulations.
(Ord. 2670, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 06-09-03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Application for such license shall be made to the City Forester according to
provisions set forth in
Article 8 of the zoning regulations.
(Ord. 2670, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 06-09-05 LICENSE FEES.
   License fees shall be established by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 2670, passed 6-4-2007)
CHAPTER 11: TAXICABS AND COMMERCIAL TRANSPORTATION VEHICLES
[Reserved]
(Repealed by Ord. 3084, passed 2-6-2017)
CHAPTER 15: GARAGE, YARD AND SIMILAR SALES
Section
   
06-15-01   Regulations and provisions
§ 06-15-01 REGULATIONS AND PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Unlawful. It shall be unlawful to conduct a garage, yard or similar
sale at any one address:
      (1)   At which four or more garage, yard or similar sales have been
conducted by any person within the preceding 365 days;
      (2)   At which a garage, yard or similar sale has been conducted by any
person within the previous 30 days;
      (3)   For longer than three consecutive days; or
      (4)   Between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (B)   Compliance. Persons conducting garage, yard or similar sales shall
comply with all provisions of this code and any and all applicable provisions
of law.
   (C)   Direct association with residence. All garage, yard or similar sales
shall be directly associated with a residence on the site of such garage, yard
or similar sale. It shall be unlawful for any person to hold a garage, yard or
similar sale on or at any vacant or unoccupied property and/or building, except
where facts exist to support the affirmative defense that such person:
      (1)   Is the owner of record of such property and/or building; or
      (2)   Prior to such sale, has obtained written permission of the owner of
such property and/or building for the garage, yard or similar sale, which
permission shall include the scope of such permission, including specific
reference to the date(s), address and location of the garage, yard or similar
sale; and the owner’s signature and date.
   (D)   Benefit sales not exempt. Garage, yard or similar sales held by or for
the benefit of charitable or nonprofit organizations shall not be exempt from
the provisions of this title.
   (E)   Hazards. It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a garage, yard
or similar sale in any manner which creates a hazard to public health or
safety.
   (F)   Penalty. Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day a violation exists shall constitute a
separate, additional offense.
   (G)   Advertising of garage, yard or similar sales.
      (1)   No more than four temporary signs per one garage, yard or similar
sale shall be installed, erected, posted or displayed for the purpose of
identifying, promoting, advertising or directing patrons to such garage, yard
or similar sale. It shall be unlawful to install, erect, post or display or to
allow or cause the installation, erection, posting or display of more than four
temporary signs per one garage, yard or similar sale identifying, promoting,
advertising or directing patrons to such garage, yard or similar sale.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to install, erect, post or
display or to allow or cause the installation, erection, posting or display of
any temporary sign identifying, promoting, advertising or directing patrons to
a garage, yard or similar sale upon any property without the permission of the
owner of such property.
      (3)   Any and all temporary signs identifying, promoting, advertising or
directing patrons to a garage, yard or similar sale shall be removed within 24
hours of the conclusion or close of such garage, yard or similar sale.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person to install, erect, post or
display or to allow or cause the installation, erection, posting or display of
any signage identifying, promoting, advertising or directing patrons to a
garage, yard or similar sale where the area of such signage exceeds six square
feet.
      (5)   Any and all temporary signs identifying, promoting, advertising or
directing patrons to a garage, yard or similar sale are prohibited from being
installed, erected, posted or displayed within any public right-of-way, on any
telephone or power pole regardless of its location, or on any type of
structure, box, facility, tree, fence, sign, pole, bench and the like, that
sits within any public right-of-way. Signage placed in violation of these
requirements is subject to immediate removal of and disposal by city staff
without notification.
(Ord. 2749, passed 8-18-2008)
CHAPTER 17: SALE YARD
[Reserved]
(Repealed by Ord. 2781, passed 1-5-2009)
CHAPTER 19: ESCORT SERVICES
[Reserved]
(Repealed by Ord. 2781, passed 1-5-2009)
CHAPTER 21: PRIVATE PATROL SERVICE
Section
   
06-21-01   Definitions
   
06-21-03   Licenses required and exemptions
   
06-21-05   Uniforms and emblems
   
06-21-07   Application for license
   
06-21-09   Qualifications
   
06-21-11   Investigation
   
06-21-13   Standards
   
06-21-15   Bond and insurance required
   
06-21-17   License fees
   
06-21-19   License expiration
§ 06-21-01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. The person making application for a license or the renewal of a
license for private patrol service.
   PRIVATE PATROL SERVICE. A firm, partnership, corporation, sole
proprietorship, association or company that purports to furnish or does furnish
for a consideration or otherwise any watchperson or guard, either uniformed or
otherwise, to patrol any district in the city, or to guard or watch any
property, or which employs any person to perform any type of duty to guard,
protect or maintain peace and order at any public function, dance hall,
theater, tavern or lounge, or any other place of public amusement or
entertainment open to and frequented by the general public. This definition
does not include employees of a business or other entity that are hired by said
business or entity to watch their property alone.
(Ord. 1788, passed 9-19-1988; Ord. 3530, passed 9-5-2023)
§ 06-21-03 LICENSES REQUIRED AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct, operate or maintain,
or permit to be conducted, operated or maintained, or to participate in the
conduct, operation or maintenance of a private patrol service unless a valid
license therefor has been issued as provided for in this chapter and which is
in full force and effect.
   (B)   This chapter shall not apply to or include regularly appointed police
officers of the city or to any regularly appointed police officer or law
enforcement agent of the United States and of this state, or any political
subdivision thereof.
(Ord. 1788, passed 9-19-1988; Ord. 3582, passed 3-20-2024)
§ 06-21-05 UNIFORMS AND EMBLEMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any private patrol service to use or
authorize the use of the following: any uniform, clothing, uniform emblems or
shoulder patches having a color, design and/or shape that appear to be similar
to those used by the City Police Department.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any private patrol service to use the word
“police” on any vehicle, building, uniform or article of wearing apparel.
   (C)   Every private patrol service, prior to being licensed under this
chapter, shall obtain approval and authorization of any color, design or shape
of any uniform, clothing, uniform emblems, badges and/or shoulder patches to be
utilized by such licensee. Application for such approval shall be made to the
City Police Department and approval and authorization, if any, shall be given
in writing by the Department and shall be attached to the application for
license required by §
06-21-03 and shall describe the color, design and shape of the uniform,
patches, badges and/or emblems, as the case may be.
(Ord. 1788, passed 9-19-1988; Ord. 3530, passed 9-5-2023)
§ 06-21-07 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   An application for a license shall be made to the City Clerk. If the
application is approved by the Police Department pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter, the license shall be issued by the City Clerk.
(Ord. 2780, passed 1-5-2009; Ord. 3530, passed 9-5-2023)
§ 06-21-09 QUALIFICATIONS.
   No person shall be issued a license as a private patrol service who:
   (A)   Is not over 18 years of age;
   (B)   Is not a citizen of the United States; and
   (C)   Has been convicted of any felony or a misdemeanor involving moral
turpitude within three years prior to the date of making application for a
license as a private patrol service.
(Ord. 1788, passed 9-19-1988; Ord. 3530, passed 9-5-2023)
§ 06-21-11 INVESTIGATION.
   The Police Chief shall examine all applications filed under §
06-21-07 and shall make, or cause to be made, such further investigation of the
application and the applicant as he or she shall deem necessary.
(Ord. 1788, passed 9-19-1988)
§ 06-21-13 STANDARDS.
   The Police Chief shall approve the issuance of a license provided in §
06-21-07 whenever he or she shall find that the applicant has complied with the
provisions of this chapter and is otherwise qualified.
(Ord. 1788, passed 9-19-1988)
§ 06-21-15 BOND AND INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   Before any license shall be issued to any applicant:
   (A)   The applicant shall be required to give a bond with the obligee being
the city in a sum not to exceed $10,000 for each private patrol service,
conditioned upon the fact that the applicant shall comply fully with the
provisions of this chapter and all other ordinances of the city and the
statutes of the state; and
   (B)   General and personal liability insurance for bodily injury, sickness,
disease or death sustained by persons and arising out of assault, battery,
false imprisonment, false arrest, malicious prosecution, abuse of process,
libel, slander, misrepresentation, deceit or interference with property and
contract rights. Said insurance shall have policy limits equal to or greater
than the minimum designated by Council resolution.
(Ord. 1788, passed 9-19-1988; Ord. 2971, passed 6-16-2014; Ord. 3530, passed 9-
5-2023)
§ 06-21-17 LICENSE FEES.
   The applicant shall pay a license fee, as set forth below, to the City Clerk
prior to issuance of a license:
   (A)   Annual private patrol service. A fee in an amount set by resolution of
City Council; and
   (B)   Renewal of private patrol service. A fee in an amount set by
resolution of City Council.
(Ord. 2780, passed 1-5-2009; Ord. 3530, passed 9-5-2023)
§ 06-21-19 LICENSE EXPIRATION.
   All licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall expire
December 31 each year. Any person holding a license under the provisions of
this chapter may renew such license for the following or succeeding year by
payment, on or before December 31, to the City Clerk.
(Ord. 1788, passed 9-19-1988; Ord. 3582, passed 3-20-2024)
CHAPTER 23: SPECIAL EVENTS
Section
   
06-23-01   Special event permits
   
06-23-02   Pre-approved special event venues
§ 06-23-01 SPECIAL EVENT PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall stage, promote or conduct any special
event, as herein defined, in the city without first obtaining a special event
permit from the City Clerk’s office.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY SPONSORED SPECIAL EVENT. A preplanned single gathering, event or
series of related consecutive daily gatherings or events of an entertainment,
cultural, recreational, educational or sporting nature, or of any other nature,
and is, wholly or at least 50%, initiated, financed or executed by the city or
one or more of its departments.
      SPECIAL EVENT. A preplanned single gathering, event or series of related
consecutive daily gatherings or events of an entertainment, cultural,
recreational, educational, political, religious or sporting nature, or of any
other nature, such as concerts, dances, assemblages, processions, parades,
circuses, fairs, festivals, block parties, community events, mass participation
sports (such as marathons and running events, fun run/walks, bicycle races or
tours, sports tournaments) or other organized activity conducted for a common
or collective use.
   (C)   Exemptions. The following shall be exempt from having to obtain a
special event permit:
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   Spontaneous events for the purpose of expressive activity that
occur in response to breaking or emerging news;
      (3)   Lawful picketing on sidewalks;
      (4)   Special events held at O’Connor Fieldhouse; O’Connor parking lot;
Simplot Stadium; rodeo grounds; fair building; Gabiola Fields; Charolais Barns
behind O’Connor Fieldhouse; Wolfe Field; and RV parking area on the corner of
21st Avenue and Arthur Street;
      (5)   City sponsored special events, as defined herein;
      (6)   Special events wholly held on private property;
      (7)   Special events that draw or expect to draw 250 or fewer
participants or spectators at any one session. This exemption does not apply to
any special event that will necessitate full or partial street or alley or
partial lane closures, regardless of the number of participants or spectators;
and
      (8)   In determining whether an event is exempt, no consideration shall
be given to the content of any constitutionally protected expression connected
with the planned activity. No permit shall be required under this section, nor
any condition imposed on any permit, if requiring a permit or imposing the
condition would violate rights protected by the Constitution of the United
States or by the Constitution of the state.
   (D)   Fee. The applicant shall submit the applicable special event fee with
the application as established by resolution of the City Council.
   (E)   Overseen by Clerk’s office. The special event permit application and
accompanying fee shall be overseen by the City Clerk’s office, with
administrative determinations made by the City Clerk and the Mayor.
   (F)   Reservations. The applicant shall make reservations for the subject
park site through the Parks Department prior to submitting the special event
application to the City Clerk’s office.
   (G)   Deposit required. If the applicant will be using any city park
facility, for a special event, a refundable damages and cleaning deposit must
accompany the submission of the special event permit application to the City
Clerk’s office.
   (H)   Submittal of application. The special event permit application shall
be obtained from the City Clerk’s office and completed, signed and submitted to
said Department, along with all required attachments as listed on the
application.
   (I)   Application submittal time frame. All applicants for a special event
permit should submit an application for the permit no later than 30 days and no
earlier than one year prior to the date of commencement of the special event.
   (J)   Alcoholic beverages. Separate application is required for licenses and
permits related to, or necessary for, the special event, including licenses or
permits to sell alcoholic beverages, as required by §
06-07-35 and state law, of the applicable laws, policies and procedures of
Southwest District Health Department.
   (K)   Liability insurance; extraordinary resources.
      (1)   Applicants shall provide, along with their special event permit
application, proof of general liability insurance in an amount not less than
$1,000,000. The city shall be listed thereon as a certificate holder and an
additional insured. Said proof of insurance shall stipulate that the city be
held harmless in the event any claim is made.
      (2)   Special event applicants, promoters and sponsors whose special
events require the use of extraordinary city resources as a result of their
anticipated attendance or heightened security concerns shall be required to pay
for those extraordinary resources as determined by that city department. Full
cost recovery for extraordinary resources shall be required no later than 60
days following the conclusion of the special event. Any extraordinary resources
for which there are additional costs shall be solely dedicated to the special
event. If, after the special event permit application is submitted, a
determination by city staff is made that extraordinary city resources may be
required for the event, an extraordinary resources deposit may also be required
as part of the approval process for the special event permit application. The
amount of the deposit will be determined by city staff, subject to evaluation
of anticipated extra resources that may be required. Any clean-up after an
event that has to be performed by the city to return the site to its normal
state shall be charged at a rate of $30 per hour with a one-hour minimum
charge.
   (L)   Departments to approve applications. The City Clerk’s office shall
send all special event applications to the following departments, at a minimum,
for review and required conditions of permit approval:
      (1)   The City Police Department;
      (2)   The City Fire Department;
      (3)   The City Parks and Recreation Department;
      (4)   The City Streets Department;
      (5)   The Engineering Department; and
      (6)   Any other local agencies, city, state or federal agency or
department as may be deemed necessary by the City Clerk.
   (M)   Permit denial. Permits may be denied by the city if:
      (1)   The applicant has made any false material representation in the
application;
      (2)   The applicant fails to provide any of the items or information
required by the application, including the signature;
      (3)   The special event will substantially interfere or conflict with any
special event for which a permit has already been granted or activity already
scheduled for a site or with the provision of public safety or other city
services in support of such other previously scheduled event;
      (4)   The event coordinator, applicant, promoter or sponsor failed to pay
for any costs incurred from a previously permitted event;
      (5)   The venue or park requested to host the event is inadequate to meet
event hosting requirements, as determined by city staff; and
      (6)   Conditions set forth by city staff, such as those set out in §
06-07-35(C), cannot be met or will not be met by the applicant.
   (N)   Reasons for denial provided. If a permit is denied, the City Clerk’s
office shall provide the applicant with written reasons for denial within five
business days of the denial date. The applicant, within ten business days after
the date of denial, may appeal the denial to the City Council for a final
decision, based upon the documents and circumstances presented, to be rendered
at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the City Council.
   (O)   Suspension or revocation of permit. A special event permit may be
summarily suspended or revoked by the City Clerk’s office for violation of any
provision of this chapter, for violation by the applicant of any federal, state
or local laws or ordinances during the special event, for violation of any of
the conditions of the permit, or for making any false, material representation
in an application for a permit. In the event of a suspension or revocation, the
appeal provisions listed above shall apply, commencing upon the date of the
suspension or revocation notice.
   (P)   Violations.
      (1)   At all special events, it shall be unlawful for any person to:
         (a)   Conduct, present, stage or promote a special event without a
permit;
         (b)   Violate any provision of this section;
         (c)   Serve or cause to be served alcohol in violation of state law or
this code; and
         (d)   Violate any condition of a special events permit.
      (2)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in
an amount not exceeding $1,000 or be imprisoned in the County Jail for a period
not exceeding 30 days, or be both so fined and imprisoned.
   (Q)   Attendance estimation. A good faith estimate for attendance and
participation shall be provided by the applicant, promoter or sponsor and shall
be noted on the special event application. The applicant shall provide a short
written statement explaining the basis upon which the estimate is made. The
statement shall include all the relevant factors known at the time, including,
without limitation, past attendance at similar functions having the same and
similar performers, both in the city and comparable communities, the price of
admission, if any, and the extent of advertising and promotion contemplated.
   (R)   Security. The City Police Department shall determine the security
requirements for any special event. Use of City Police Department officers for
security services and/or for traffic control will incur a fee for services
provided, as set by resolution of the City Council. The City Police Department
shall also determine whether outside security patrol services will be required
for the event and the number of personnel required, dependent upon the nature,
size and location of the event. If outside security services are required for
the event, the applicant shall be responsible for hiring said services from a
list of approved service providers maintained by the City Clerk’s office. The
applicant shall designate upon the application the agency responsible for
providing said security. The City Police Department reserves the right to
reject proposed agencies or personnel for required security.
   (S)   Traffic control. The City Police Department shall usually provide
traffic control personnel for special events that require road closures. The
cost of this provision shall be as determined by said Police Department and
shall be payable prior to the onset of the event. All traffic control measures,
including any required signage or advance road closure notifications, shall be
under the direction and supervision of the City Police Department. Should
additional traffic control personnel be necessary over and above whatever City
Police Department can provide, the applicant shall be responsible for employing
and paying said personnel, which personnel shall be approved by the City Police
Department and under the direct supervision of the City Police Department. The
City Police Department shall reserve the right to reject proposed agencies or
personnel for required traffic control.
   (T)   Sanitary and refuse disposal. All special events shall designate an
individual or individuals who shall be responsible for monitoring restroom
supplies, restroom cleanup and refuse disposal. At the discretion of the city,
any sanitary or refuse disposal item may be required to be provided, at the
expense of the special event, to accommodate the event, including, but not
limited to, portable toilets, additional restroom supplies, additional trash
bins and the like. Such additional requirements shall be listed on the
conditions of approval of the special event permit. Failure to provide
additional requirements may result in revocation of the permit.
      (1)   For events of 100 or fewer people, a minimum of two restrooms shall
be made available.
      (2)   For events exceeding 100 people, the following table provides the
required number of restrooms or portable toilets that shall be provided.
Table 1.1
Restrooms/Portable Toilets
Attendance Number of Hours of Event
           1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
Table 1.1
Restrooms/Portable Toilets
Attendance     Number of Hours of Event
               1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10
101 - 500      4  4  4  6  6  6  8  8  8  8
501 - 1,000    4  6  6  6  6  8  8  8  8  12
1,001 - 2,000  8  8  8  8  8  12 12 12 12 16
2,001 - 3,000  8  8  10 10 10 12 16 16 20 20
3,001 - 4,000  8  8  12 12 16 16 20 24 24 28
4,001 - 5,000  12 12 12 16 20 30 30 30 30 34
5,001 - 6,000  12 12 16 16 20 30 30 36 36 40
6,001 - 7,000  12 12 16 20 30 32 40 40 42 52
7,001 - 8,000  12 12 20 24 32 32 40 44 48 54
8,001 - 9,000  16 16 24 28 40 40 52 52 60 64
9,001 - 10,000 16 16 28 40 40 52 52 60 60 72
 
      (3)   The required numbers on
Table 1.1 of this section may be increased or decreased at the discretion of
the Parks and Recreation Department, in consultation with the City Clerk’s
office, depending upon weather, alcohol on the site, distance from the site and
the like.
      (4)   Available public restrooms count toward the minimum requirement.
      (5)   One of every 20 restroom units needs to be handicap accessible.
   (U)   Parking. All special events shall designate an individual or
individuals to monitor restricted and designated parking areas for the event.
Failure to provide parking monitoring may result in revocation of the permit.
   (V)   Fire watch. Based upon the location of the event, and at the
discretion of the City Fire Department, a fire watch may be required as a
condition of the special event permit. Said fire watch shall be provided at the
sole expense of the applicant.
   (W)   Alterations. Should the parameters of the special event change, which
would alter conditions listed on the special event permit, after the special
event permit has been issued, said parameters should be submitted to the City
Clerk’s office for review with possible revised conditions to follow said
review.
   (X)   Right-of-way permit. A right-of-way permit may be required for
closures of collector or arterial streets.
(Ord. 3076, passed 12-5-2016; Ord. 3157, passed 7-2-2018; Ord. 3521, passed 7-
18-2023; Ord. 3539, passed 10-3-2023)
§ 06-23-02 PRE-APPROVED SPECIAL EVENT VENUES.
   (A)   A venue may be approved on an annual basis for the hosting of events
throughout the year if:
      (1)   The venue hosts a minimum of 12 events per year at which a special
event permit is required;
      (2)   The venue and host maintain good standing with all licensing and
permitting;
      (3)   The venue applicant resubmits its pre-approved venue application
each year complying with §
06-23-01; and
      (4)   The venue applicant complies with all special event requirements
under this code, and any conditions set forth by city staff, each time it hosts
an event.
   (B)   A pre-approved event venue application must be submitted and approved
as outlined in §
06-23-01. The applicant must fulfill all requirements and, additionally, must
include a list of all expected and planned events for the current calendar
year.
   (C)   Once the pre-approved venue application is approved by all necessary
city departments, the venue applicant must submit to the City Clerk an event
detail form confirming the details of each upcoming event not later than 45
days prior to the date of each event listed on the pre-approved event venue
application. The venue applicant will not need to reapply for venue approval.
(Ord. 3157, passed 7-2-2018; Ord. 3570, passed 2-6-2024)
TITLE 7: PUBLIC HEALTH
   Chapter
      
1.   REFUSE COLLECTION REGULATIONS
      
3.   ACCUMULATIONS OF REFUSE PROHIBITED; APPEARANCE OF COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES
      
5.   BURNING OR DUMPING OF RUBBISH AND OTHER MATERIALS
      
7.   SOLID FUEL HEATING DEVICES
      
9.   WEEDS
      
11.   NUISANCE ABATEMENT; APPEARANCE OF PROPERTY
      
13.   PUBLIC NOISE DISTURBANCE
CHAPTER 1: REFUSE COLLECTION REGULATIONS
Section
   
07-01-01   Definitions
   
07-01-03   Responsible authority
   
07-01-05   Code Enforcement Officer
   
07-01-07   Compulsory use of the system
   
07-01-09   Collection regulations
   
07-01-11   Financial regulations
   
07-01-13   Disposal site
§ 07-01-01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BAGS. Plastics sacks designed to store refuse with sufficient wall strength
to maintain physical integrity when lifted by the top. Total weight of a BAG
and its contents shall not exceed 35 pounds.
   BIN and BOX. Metal receptacle designed to be lifted, transported and emptied
mechanically for use at commercial and industrial units.
   BULKY WASTE. Stoves, refrigerators, water tanks, washing machines, furniture
and other waste materials other than construction debris, dead animals,
hazardous waste or stable matter with weights or volumes greater than those
allowed for containers for residential customers and in bins for commercial and
industrial customers.
   BUNDLE. Tree, shrub and brush trimmings four feet in length or newspapers
and magazines securely tied together forming an easily handled package not
exceeding three feet in length or 35 pounds in weight.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The authorized employee or employees of the city
or some individual designated by the City Council as having the duty of the
enforcement of this chapter.
   COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL REFUSE. All bulky waste, construction debris,
garbage, rubbish and stable matter generated by a producer at a commercial and
industrial unit.
   COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL UNIT. All premises, locations or entities, public
or private, requiring refuse collection within the corporate limits of the city
not a residential unit.
   CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS. Waste building materials resulting from construction,
remodeling, repair or demolition operations.
   CONTAINER. A receptacle with a capacity of greater than 20 gallons, but less
than 32 gallons, constructed of plastics, metal or fiberglass, having handles
of adequate strength for lifting and having a tight-fitting lid capable of
preventing entrance into the container by vectors. The mouth of a container
shall have a diameter greater than or equal to that of the base. The weight of
a container and its contents shall not exceed 70 pounds.
   CONTRACTOR. The person, corporation or partnership performing refuse
collection and disposal under contract with the city.
   DEAD ANIMALS. Animals or portions thereof equal to or greater than ten
pounds in weight that have expired from any cause, except those slaughtered or
killed for human use.
   DISPOSAL SITE. For the purpose of the protection and preservation of the
health and welfare of the inhabitants of the city, there is hereby established
at such places and location as the City Council may from time to time designate
by motion or order, a place for the dumping and depositing of rubbish and
garbage and any such place or location shall be known and the same is hereby
designated as the city DISPOSAL SITE.
   GARBAGE. Any and all dead animals of less than ten pounds in weight, except
those slaughtered for human consumption; every accumulation of waste (animal,
vegetable and/or other matter) that results from the preparation, processing,
consumption, dealing in, handling, packing, canning, storage, transportation,
decay or decomposition of meats, fish, fowl, birds, fruits, grains or other
animal or vegetable matter (including, but not by way of limitation, used tin
cans and other food containers and all putrescible or easily decomposable waste
animal or vegetable matter which is likely to attract flies or rodents); except
(in all cases) any matter included in the definition of BULKY WASTE,
CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS, DEAD ANIMALS, HAZARDOUS WASTE, RUBBISH or STABLE MATTER.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any chemical, compound, mixture, substance or article which
is designated by the United States environmental protection or appropriate
agency of the state to be HAZARDOUS as that term is defined by or pursuant to
federal or state law.
   MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL UNIT. A group of three or more dwelling units in
one location, regardless of any lot or property divisions, which are owned,
managed or controlled by one individual or organization. Each RESIDENTIAL UNIT
may be billed separately, unless the owner fails to keep or cause to be kept,
all bags, bundles and containers in such manner that there is no scattering of
refuse. If after issuance of a second five-day notice within any 12-month
period, the owner has failed to comply, the city may require that the owner
shall supply a commercial bin or box and be billed for the balance of any
monthly charge that has not already being paid by the tenants or occupants. The
city shall require that the bin remain for a period of 12 months. After a
period of three months, the owner may request a reevaluation, and if the city
can verify that there is continuing compliance, the city may allow the return
of the bin to the refuse collection company. A required bin will not diminish
the owner’s, manager’s or occupant’s responsibilities to jointly and severally
comply.
   PRODUCER, COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL. An occupant of a commercial or
industrial unit who generates refuse.
   PRODUCER, RESIDENTIAL. An occupant of a residential unit who generates
refuse.
   REFUSE, COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL. This term shall refer to commercial and
industrial refuse to be collected and disposed of pursuant to contract unless
otherwise required.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT. A division of land or property containing one or two
dwelling units within the corporate limits of the city occupied by a person or
group of persons. A RESIDENTIAL UNIT is deemed occupied when either water or
electrical services are being supplied thereto. Each individual residential
unit’s refuse collection fees may either be billed separately or to the owner.
   RUBBISH or REFUSE. All waste wood, wood products, tree trimmings, grass
cuttings, dead plants, weeds, leaves, dead trees or branches thereof, chips,
shavings, sawdust, printed matter, paper, pasteboard, straw, used and discarded
mattresses, used and discarded clothing, used and discarded shoes and boots,
combustible waste pulp, boxes and other products such as are used for
packaging, wrapping, crockery and glass, ashes, cinders, floor sweepings,
glass, mineral or metallic substances, and any and all other wastes materials
not included in the definition of BULKY WASTE, CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS, DEAD
ANIMALS, GARBAGE, HAZARDOUS WASTE or STABLE MATTER, STOVES, REFRIGERATORS,
WASHERS, DRYERS, FURNITURE, SCRAP METALS, CAR PARTS OR TIRES.
   STABLE MATTER. All manure and other waste matter normally accumulated in or
about a stable or any animal, livestock or poultry enclosure and resulting from
the keeping of animals, poultry or livestock.
(Ord. 1588, passed 11-25-1980; Ord. 1704, passed 8-5-1983; Ord. 1703, passed 8-
5-1985; Ord. 2958, passed 3-3-2014)
§ 07-01-03 RESPONSIBLE AUTHORITY.
   The Chief of Police or such other persons as may be appointed by the Mayor
and City Council shall be responsible for the enforcement of the provisions of
this chapter and other duties as the City Council may prescribe, and there
shall be designated an enforcement officer who shall enforce the same at the
direction of the Mayor and City Council.
(Ord. 1143, passed 11-4-1968)
§ 07-01-05 CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Mayor shall designate a Code Enforcement Officer or any other person
concerned with the enforcement of laws, who shall have the right of ingress or
egress to any premises for the purpose of inspecting all places and containers
where rubbish and garbage is accumulated or kept.
(Ord. 1588, passed 11-25-1980)
§ 07-01-07 COMPULSORY USE OF THE SYSTEM.
   (A)   Every owner and occupant of premises within the prescribed limits of
the city must use the refuse collection and disposal system herein provided and
shall deposit or cause to be deposited in accordance with these regulations all
rubbish and garbage that is of such nature that it is perishable or may be
scattered by wind or otherwise.
   (B)   In sparsely populated areas of the city where the collection of
garbage and refuse on the schedules hereinafter set forth would be
impracticable, the City Council may issue a special permit altering the time
and extent of collection.
(Ord. 1143, passed 11-4-1968)
§ 07-01-09 COLLECTION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Licensing and contracting.
      (1)   The Mayor or City Council shall be the sole authority to license,
contract or perform all services pertaining to sanitary collection and disposal
and to establish reasonable fees for licenses and is hereby authorized to enter
into contracts with one or more contractors, and establish reasonable rules and
regulations governing the conduct and operation of such licenses of
contractors.
      (2)   The City Council may require of any such collector or contractor a
financial guarantee in a reasonable amount, the condition of which shall be the
satisfactory performance of the contract.
   (B)   City to make rules and regulations. The City Clerk or Code Enforcement
Officer may make or prescribe such rules and regulations as they shall deem
advisable; such to be enforced after approval of the Mayor and City Council by
resolution. Said rules and regulations may cover charges for service for
periods of less than one month, and applications for exemptions from charges
when house or building is unoccupied when water service is furnished.
   (C)   Collection, transportation and disposal. There is hereby established a
system of collection, transportation and disposal. It shall be unlawful for any
person to engage in the business of collecting, transporting, hauling or
conveying any refuse over the streets or alleys, or to dump or dispose of the
same, unless such person has a contract therefor as an authorized
representative of the city.
      (1)   Residential collection.
         (a)   Service provided. The contractor shall provide curbside
collection service for the collection of residential refuse to each residential
unit once per week. Containers, bags and bundles shall be placed at curbside by
7:00 a.m., on the designated collection day. The contractor shall provide for
the special collection from residential units of bulky waste, construction
debris and stable matter. Also, the contractor may provide for the special
collection of dead animals and hazardous waste at residential units at its sole
discretion and upon such terms as the contractor shall specify.
         (b)   Location of containers, bags and bundles for collection.
            1.   Each container, bag and bundle shall be placed at curbside for
collection. For the purpose of this section, CURBSIDE refers to that portion or
right-of-way adjacent to paved or traveled city roadways (including alleys).
Containers, bags and bundles shall be placed as close to the roadway as
practicable without interfering with or endangering the movement of vehicles or
pedestrians. When construction work is being performed in the right-of-way,
containers, bags and bundles shall be placed as close as practicable to an
access point for the collection vehicle. Contractor may decline to collect any
container, bag and bundle not so placed.
            2.   Refuse containers, except approved volume containers as
defined in division (C)(2) below, shall not be placed nor stored outside within
25 feet of any public street in any residential area of the city except on
regularly scheduled collection days within that area. The siting of approved
volume containers adjacent to the public streets shall be subject to the
approval of the City Engineer.
         (c)   Hours of operation. Collection of refuse shall not start before
7:00 a.m. or continue after 9:00 p.m. on the same day. Exceptions to collection
hours shall be effected only upon the mutual agreement of the city and
contractor, or when contractor reasonably determines that an exception is
necessary in order to complete collection on an existing collection route due
to unusual circumstances.
      (2)   Commercial and industrial collection.
         (a)   Service provided. The contractor shall provide curbside
collection service for commercial and industrial refuse in accordance with
schedule submitted in the proposal. The contractor may from time to time
provide for the special collection of dead animals and hazardous waste at
commercial and industrial units at its sole discretion and upon such terms as
the contractor shall specify.
         (b)   Location of bins for collection. The contractor shall provide
bins and boxes for commercial and industrial units whenever customers request
their use. Each bin or box shall be placed in an accessible outside location on
a hard surface according to individual agreement. The contractor may decline to
collect refuse in bins or boxes not so placed.
         (c)   Hours of operation. Collection of commercial and industrial
refuse shall take place according to individual agreement.
         (d)   Routes of collection. Commercial and industrial unit collection
routes shall be established by the contractor at its sole discretion.
         (e)   Notification to city. The contractor shall notify the city of
the rates and any changes in rates for all commercial and industrial customers.
   (D)   Method of collection. Fees for collection of refuse shall be included
on the water and sewer bill, the same shall be paid with the water and sewer
bill, and the Water and Sewer Departments are authorized to discontinue service
to any premises if the entire water, sewer and refuse collection bill is not
paid. The procedures for initiating service, disconnecting service, billing of
accounts and processing of delinquent accounts shall be in accordance with
policies adopted by resolution of the City Council.
   (E)   Security deposits. At the initiation or reconnection of service, the
city may elect to collect a security deposit to ensure the ultimate payment of
charges and fees. The procedures for collecting the amount, the procedures for
applying to delinquent charges and fees and the final disposition of unapplied
amounts of said security deposit shall be in accordance with policies adopted
by resolution of the City Council.
   (F)   Collection period. Collectors shall collect refuse for residential
units once each week through the 12 months of the year or as may otherwise be
provided by the rules and regulations of the City Council.
   (G)   Materials not acceptable for collection. Dirt or earth debris from
construction or lawn renovation, rocks, stones, automobile bodies and parts,
dead animals, building materials such as masonry, plaster, scrap lumber and
wood shavings are not acceptable for collection, and such items shall be
collected and disposed of by the building contractor, owner or occupant of the
premises.
(Ord. 1588, passed 11-25-1980; Ord. 2112, passed 10-2-1995; Ord. 2465, passed
7-21-2003; Ord. 2558, passed 10-17-2005)
§ 07-01-11 FINANCIAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Collection fees. Fees and rates for the collection of refuse shall be
set by rules and regulations of the City Council adopted by resolution.
Provided, further, that where the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter
will work a financial hardship, or where the amount of refuse is of such small
amount as to not warrant the collection of the full charges as herein provided,
the Mayor and City Council may issue a special permit altering the provisions
of this chapter.
   (B)   Municipal Solid Waste Collection and Disposal Fund. The proceeds from
the collection of fees and charges herein provided shall be placed in a special
fund to be known as the Sanitary Service Revenue Fund, and all expenses of the
city in the operation of the sanitary collection and disposal system shall be
paid out of such fund.
(Ord. 1588, passed 11-25-1980)
§ 07-01-13 DISPOSAL SITE.
   For the purpose of the protection and preservation of the health and welfare
of the inhabitants of the city, there is hereby established, at such places and
location as the City Council may from time to time designate a motion or order,
a place for the dumping and depositing of rubbish and garbage and any such
place or location shall be known and the same is hereby designated as the city
disposal site.
(Ord. 1588, passed 11-25-1980)
CHAPTER 3: ACCUMULATIONS OF REFUSE PROHIBITED; APPEARANCE OF COMMERCIAL
PROPERTIES
[Reserved]
(Repealed by Ord. 2958, passed 3-3-2014)
CHAPTER 5: BURNING OR DUMPING OF RUBBISH AND OTHER MATERIALS
[Reserved]
(Repealed by Ord. 2335, passed 9-5-2000)
CHAPTER 7: SOLID FUEL HEATING DEVICES
Section
   
07-07-01   Solid Fuel Heating Appliance Appeals and Advisory Board
   
07-07-03   Solid fuel heating appliance permits
§ 07-07-01 SOLID FUEL HEATING APPLIANCE APPEALS AND ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   Created; membership.
      (1)   There is hereby created a Solid Fuel Heating Appliance Appeals and
Advisory Board for the purpose of hearing and deciding all appeals from a
denial by the Fire Marshal or designee of a solid fuel heating appliance permit
as is required by this chapter. The Solid Fuel Heating Appliance Appeals and
Advisory Board shall consist of three members, appointed by the Mayor with the
advice and consent of the Council. The members of the first Board shall be
appointed as follows in division (A)(2) below.
      (2)   One member shall be appointed for a period of one year, one member
for a period of two years and one member for a period of three years.
Thereafter, the Mayor shall appoint each year one member to take the place of
the retiring member on said Board, and said appointment shall be for a period
of three years. In the event, however, that any member of the Board shall
resign or through death or disability cease to be a member of said Board, the
Mayor may appoint a successor, with the Council’s approval, to finish out the
unexpired term.
   (B)   Qualifications. All persons appointed to membership on the Solid Fuel
Heating Appliance Appeals and Advisory Board shall be duly qualified voters in
the city; provided, however, one such appointed member may reside outside the
city and does not have to be a qualified voter in the city.
   (C)   Organization. The Board shall be appointed and meet when required to
hear appeals from denials of solid fuel heating appliance permits as provided
in this chapter. The Board shall organize within ten days following its
appointment and, at its first meeting, elect one of its members as Chairperson.
The Chairperson shall then appoint one as Vice Chairperson and one as
Secretary. All officers shall hold office during the pleasure of the Board. The
Secretary shall be required to keep an accurate record of all proceedings of
the Board. The Board shall report to the Council all its proceedings,
transactions and recommendations upon request.
   (D)   Powers and duties. The Solid Fuel Heating Appliance Appeals and
Advisory Board shall hear and decide all appeals from a denial by the Fire
Marshal or designee of a solid fuel heating appliance permit as required by
this chapter. The Solid Fuel Heating Appliance Appeals and Advisory Board may
recommend to the Fire Marshal inspection and enforcement criteria associated
with this chapter. The City Council, as it deems necessary, may adjust the
solid fuel heating appliance permit fee as set by the City Fire Department’s
Fire Marshal.
(Ord. 1779, passed 4-18-1988)
§ 07-07-03 SOLID FUEL HEATING APPLIANCE PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit to install required. It shall be unlawful for any person in the
city to install a solid fuel heating appliance in any new or existing structure
until first procuring from the Fire Department a solid fuel heating appliance
permit.
   (B)   Dealer, installer permit required. It shall be unlawful on or after
July 1, 1988, for any person in the city to offer to sell or sell for
installation in any new or existing structure, or to install or be installed in
any new or existing structure, a solid fuel heating appliance which has not
been certified by the Oregon Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ). The
owner of the solid fuel heating appliance shall be required to provide proof of
the appliance’s being certified by the Oregon Department of Environmental
Quality.
   (C)   Denial of permit or exemption.
      (1)   Authorized. Upon a showing of sufficient cause to believe that
grounds exist for denial of a permit or exemption from the rules and
regulations of the Fire Department as provided for in this chapter, the Fire
Marshal or designee may deny said permit or exemption by notifying the
applicant by certified mail, personal service or substituted service, of the
grounds for said denial and of the applicant’s opportunity to appeal said
denial to the Solid Fuel Heating Appliance Appeals and Advisory Board. Failure
of a person to actually receive a notice sent or served shall not invalidate
the denial.
      (2)   Appeals.
         (a)   The applicant, upon receiving notice of the denial, may appeal
said denial by making application for a hearing before the Solid Fuel Heating
Appliance Appeals and Advisory Board within ten working days of receipt of the
above notice.
         (b)   The hearing shall be before the Solid Fuel Heating Appliance
Appeals and Advisory Board. At such hearing, the applicant may present
evidence, call witnesses and be represented by counsel. Within ten working days
after the date of the hearing, the Solid Fuel Heating Appliance Appeals and
Advisory Board shall either:
            1.   Approve the denial by the Fire Marshal or designee; or
            2.   Allow the issuance of the permit or exemption with
modifications or conditions as the Board may impose, such modifications or
conditions to be reasonably related to the use of the permit or exemption and
in compliance with the International Fire Code (see Title 8, Chapter 13 of this
code) and other city codes.
         (c)   The decision of the Board on a denial shall be final and
conclusive. Appeal from a decision of the Board must be made to the County
District Court.
(Ord. 1779, passed 4-18-1988)
CHAPTER 9: WEEDS
[Reserved]
(Repealed by Ord. 2923, passed 4-15-2013)
CHAPTER 11: NUISANCE ABATEMENT; APPEARANCE OF PROPERTY
Section
   
07-11-01   Definitions
   
07-11-03   Nuisance conditions prohibited; responsible party
   
07-11-05   Abatement of nuisances; procedures, penalties and appeals
   
07-11-07   Hindering authorized person
§ 07-11-01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK VEHICLE. Partially dismantled, wrecked, discarded or otherwise
nonoperating motor vehicles or parts thereof. Also includes, but is not limited
to, trucks, mobile homes, trailers, travel trailers, coaches, farm vehicles and
machinery and/or bodies or major parts.
   NUISANCE. Any condition or use of premises which is detrimental to the
premises of others or which causes or tends to cause material diminution in the
value of other premises in the neighborhood or which creates a condition
tending to promote blight and deterioration, to invite plundering, to create
fire or traffic hazards, to constitute an unattractive nuisance, to create a
harborage for rodents and insects or be otherwise injurious to the health,
safety and general welfare of the inhabitants of the city. The term NUISANCE
shall specifically include, but not be limited to, the following conditions
and/or matter:
      (1)   The proliferation and/or growth of weeds which:
         (a)   Are over eight inches in height;
         (b)   By reason of size, manner of growth, location or dryness,
constitute a safety, health or fire hazard to any person, building,
improvement, crop or other real or personal property; or
         (c)   Are designated as noxious weeds by the state.
      (2)   Graffiti, on any surface;
      (3)   Nuisance materials on the ground, whether leaked, drained, seeped,
dripped, sprayed or dumped, except that this shall not include the incidental
leakage of nuisance materials from registered vehicles lawfully moving or
parked upon a public right-of-way; the lawful application of pesticides or
herbicides for purposes of controlling pests or weeds; or activity otherwise
specifically allowed by law or by written permit issued by the city or other
governing authority;
      (4)   Snow, ice, vegetation, weeds, personal property of any kind or any
other object or material on any public sidewalk or any portion of a public
sidewalk, except as specifically allowed by law or by written permit issued by
the city or other governing authority;
      (5)   Stagnant or impure water which causes or creates an offensive,
unhealthy or unsanitary condition;
      (6)   Refuse, vegetative decay or any decaying substance, garbage or
filth of any kind which is exposed to the elements and which causes or creates
an offensive, unhealthy or unsanitary condition;
      (7)   Discarded matter which has no substantial market value, is exposed
to the elements and is not enclosed in any structure or otherwise concealed
from public view, including, but not limited to, rubble, litter, asphalt,
concrete, plaster, tile, cardboard, paper, scrap wood, scrap metal, tires,
broken glass and/or other dilapidated or deteriorating personal property; and
      (8)   The accumulation of and/or failure to lawfully dispose of solid
waste on any commercial or residential premises.
   SOLID WASTE. All useless, unwanted or discarded putrescible and
nonputrescible wastes. SOLID WASTE includes, but is not limited to, garbage,
refuse, rubbish, ashes, trees, shrubs, grass and lawn clippings, dead trees or
branches thereof, waste wood, wood chips, shavings, sawdust, dead plants,
weeds, leaves, street cleanings, construction and demolition wastes, printed
matter, paper, pasteboard, straw, used and discarded mattresses, used and
discarded clothing, used and discarded shoes and boots, combustible waste pulp,
boxes and other products such as are used for packaging, wrapping, crockery and
glass, cinders, floor sweepings, mineral or metallic substances, animal
carcasses, offal, car bodies, construction debris, stoves, refrigerators,
washing machines, dryers, furniture, scrap metals, car parts, tires, sewage
treatment residue and other residential, commercial, industrial and
agricultural wastes. SOLID WASTE, as herein defined, excludes materials that
are known as hazardous waste and governed by the Environmental Protection
Agency, or its agents, and its regulations.
   WEEDS. Undesirable plant growth, whether living or dead, that is unkempt,
unsightly, deleterious and/or injurious to the public. This definition shall
not include cultivated grasses and pastures, though such vegetation may be
declared a nuisance where otherwise appropriate.
(Ord. 2913, passed 10-15-2012; Ord. 2958, passed 3-3-2014)
§ 07-11-03 NUISANCE CONDITIONS PROHIBITED; RESPONSIBLE PARTY.
   (A)   Nuisances prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupant,
user or person in charge or control of any property to create, cause, commit,
maintain or allow the existence of any nuisance on such property, or upon any
street, sidewalk or public right-of-way abutting such property, including the
area behind curbs, sidewalks, parking areas and property to the center of
alleys and ditches. Further, it shall be unlawful for any person to create,
cause, allow or commit any nuisance upon any public property, right-of-way or
infrastructure, including sidewalks, streets, gutters or storm drains.
   (B)   Responsible party. Where a nuisance exists upon property that is
vacant, abandoned and/or uninhabited, the owner of record, whether a natural
person or persons or an entity of any kind, as reflected on the most recent
assessment roll, shall be presumed to be responsible for creating, causing,
committing, maintaining and/or allowing such nuisance. Such owner of record
shall be subject to any and all penalties imposed as set forth herein, and
shall be responsible for payment of any and all costs incurred in abating the
nuisance. The owner of record shall bear the burden of rebutting this
presumption.
(Ord. 2913, passed 10-15-2012)
§ 07-11-05 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES; PROCEDURES, PENALTIES AND APPEALS.
   (A)   Request for voluntary compliance. If it is determined by a Code
Enforcement Officer that a nuisance exists on any property, the Code
Enforcement Officer shall cause a written request for voluntary compliance to
be issued to the owner, occupier or person in control of such property. Such
request for voluntary compliance shall contain the street address and parcel
number of the property, describe the nuisance existing thereon, request
voluntary action to eliminate the nuisance and establish the time period for
voluntary elimination of said nuisance, which shall be ten days from the date
of the request for voluntary compliance. No request for voluntary compliance
shall be issued for subsequent violations of the same type.
   (B)   Intent of abatement notice. If, following the issuance of a request
for voluntary compliance pursuant to division (A) above, a Code Enforcement
Officer finds that a nuisance still exists on any property, or in the event of
subsequent or continuing violations, the officer shall cause an intent of
abatement notice to be issued to the owner, occupier or person in control of
such property. Such intent of abatement notice shall contain the street address
and parcel number of the property, describe the nuisance existing thereon,
order the abatement of the nuisance, establish the time period for abatement,
specify the penalty for noncompliance, and describe the opportunity and time
for appeal. The Code Enforcement Officer shall issue such intent of abatement
notice to the owner, occupier or person in control of the property on which the
nuisance exists in one of the following ways:
      (1)   By personal service upon such owner, occupier or person in charge
or control of the property;
      (2)   By regular mail to such owner, occupier or person in charge or
control of the property, at the address shown on the last available assessment
roll, or as otherwise known; or
      (3)   By posting such notice and order at a conspicuous place on the
property.
   (C)   Time period for abatement. It shall be the duty of the owner, occupier
or person in charge or control of any property where any nuisance exists to
abate such nuisance within five calendar days from the date of personal
service, mailing or publication, however, the Code Enforcement Officer may
require summary abatement of a nuisance condition where such condition presents
an imminent or ongoing threat to or impairment of human health or safety.
   (D)   Appeal. Within four calendar days from the date of service, mailing or
publication of the notice of violation and order to abate, the owner, occupier
or person in charge or control of the subject property may appeal to the City
Council by filing a written appeal with the City Clerk, which appeal shall
enumerate the grounds for appeal. The City Clerk may schedule such appeal for
hearing at the next regular meeting of City Council. City Council shall
consider written and oral testimony from the appellant and shall affirm,
withdraw or modify the order to abate. The decision of the City Council shall
be final. If the City Council affirms the order, the appellant shall have five
calendar days from the date of such affirmation to abate the nuisance as
ordered.
   (E)   Criminal penalties. If, following notice of violation and order to
abate, any person allows the existence of a nuisance to continue, such person
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each and every day in which any such
violation continues may be deemed a separate offense. Peace officers and Code
Enforcement Officers shall have the authority to issue citations to violators
of this section.
   (F)   Civil penalties. In addition to any other penalties described in this
chapter, the city may also take civil action to obtain an order enjoining the
ongoing maintenance of such property free from nuisance, and/or to recover any
and all costs of abatement, enforcement, litigation and/or prosecution
including, but not limited to, attorneys’ fees and court costs.
   (G)   Abatement; administrative penalties. In addition to pursuing criminal
and/or civil penalties, and notwithstanding the imposition of any civil or
criminal fine, penalty or imprisonment, the Code Enforcement Officer, after
providing notice and hearing as provided herein, may abate or cause the
abatement of any nuisance where the owner, occupant, agent or person in control
of property does not comply in all respects with the intent of abatement
notice. The owner, occupier and/or person in charge or control of the subject
property shall be billed, assessed and/or held responsible for any and all
actual expenses of such work, and any related charges, including fees and fines
that may be imposed pursuant to this title and/or adopted by fee schedule,
pursuant to the following procedures.
      (1)   Recovery of abatement costs and fees. Within 30 days of abatement
of the nuisance, the city shall send to the owner, occupier and/or person in
charge or control of the subject property, by regular mail, a billing statement
requiring payment to cover the costs of abating the nuisance and the
administrative fee as established by fee schedule.
      (2)   Nonpayment of abatement costs. If full payment is not made to the
city within 30 days of the mailing of the billing statement requiring payment
of abatement costs and fees, the city may:
         (a)   Attempt to recover such amount through the city bill collection
procedures; and/or
         (b)   Levy a special assessment against the subject property pursuant
to Idaho Code §§ 50-334 and 50-1008 and/or any subsequently adopted or
otherwise applicable laws. Notice of the special assessment shall be sent by
regular mail to the owner of the subject property, and shall state the address
and parcel number of the subject property, date of abatement action taken and
state the amount to be assessed, including any applicable administrative and/or
late fees, and shall state that if the assessment is not paid within 30 days,
the assessment will be placed on the real property tax rolls and will become a
lien against such property. If payment to the City Clerk is not made within 30
days after mailing the notice of special assessment, the assessment shall be
declared delinquent and shall be certified, including a 10% late fee, to the
County Assessor by the City Clerk, not later than August 1 of each year. Upon
such certification, the assessment shall be placed upon the tax roll and shall
thereafter become a lien against the property described in the notice and shall
be collected in the same manner and subject to the same penalties as other city
taxes. Upon payment of the assessment, fees and penalties in full, the City
Clerk shall file a release of lien with the County Assessor.
   (H)   Summary abatement. Nothing contained herein shall prevent a Code
Enforcement Officer, peace officer or Fire Marshal from requiring, undertaking
or causing summary abatement of a nuisance condition where such condition
presents an imminent or ongoing threat to or impairment of human health or
safety.
(Ord. 2913, passed 10-15-2012; Ord. 2923, passed 4-15-2013; Ord. 3002, passed
6-15-2015; Ord. 3171, passed 8-20-2018)
§ 07-11-07 HINDERING AUTHORIZED PERSON.
   It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor to interfere with, hinder or refuse
to allow any authorized city official or employee, or Code Enforcement Officer
to enter upon private or public property to enforce the provisions of this
title.
(Ord. 2913, passed 10-15-2012)
CHAPTER 13: PUBLIC NOISE DISTURBANCE
Section
   
07-13-01   Purpose
   
07-13-02   Definitions
   
07-13-03   Public noise prohibited
   
07-13-04   Loud amplification devices upon or within motor vehicles prohibited;
air compression brakes prohibited
   
07-13-05   Exceptions
   
07-13-06   Penalty
§ 07-13-01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is the protection of the health, safety and
welfare of the residents of the city. It is determined that sound can and does
constitute a hazard to the health, safety, welfare and quality of life of
residents of the city. The Mayor and Council, by way of Idaho Code § 50-308,
are empowered to impose reasonable limitations and regulations upon the
production of sound to reduce the harmful effect thereof. Now, therefore, it is
hereafter the policy of this city to prevent and regulate sound generated by
loud amplification devices wherever it is deemed to be harmful to the health,
safety, welfare or quality of life of the residents of the city, and this
chapter shall be liberally construed to effectuate that purpose.
(Ord. 2456, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 07-13-02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Caldwell, Idaho, or the area within the city.
   COMMON AREA(S). The area of a facility, complex, apartment unit, hotel,
motel or the like that is open either to the general public or persons with the
permission of the owner or agent of the owner of the area. This definition
would include, but not be limited to, the following: swimming pools,
restaurants, patios, hot tubs, saunas, laundry rooms, meeting rooms, lobbies,
lounges, bars and other areas within the facility that are either construed or
designed for use in this manner.
   LOUD AMPLIFICATION DEVICE. Any equipment designed or used for sound
production, reproduction or amplification, including, but not limited to, any
radio, television, phonograph, musical instrument, stereo, tape player, compact
disc player, loudspeaker, public address (PA) system, sound amplifier or
comparable sound broadcasting device.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, organization or entity having legally
recognized existence, whether public or private.
   PLACE OF RESIDENCE. Any building or portion thereof adapted or used and
intended for the overnight accommodation of persons. In the event the building
is used for multiple individual units (i.e., apartment, condominium, hotel,
motel, duplex, triplex and the like), each individual unit shall be considered
a separate residence for the purpose of this chapter.
   PLAINLY AUDIBLE. Sound for which the information content is clearly
communicated to the listener, including, but not limited to, understandable
spoken speech, comprehension of whether a voice is raised or normal,
comprehensible musical rhythms, melody or instrumentation, and the source of
which is identifiable to the listener.
(Ord. 2456, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 07-13-03 PUBLIC NOISE PROHIBITED.
   Between the hours of 11:00 p.m. one day and 7:00 a.m. the next day, it shall
be unlawful for any person or business to make, cause or allow loud or
offensive noise by means of voice, musical instrument, horn, radio,
loudspeaker, automobile, machinery, other sound amplifying equipment or any
other means which disturbs the peace, quiet and comfort of any reasonable
person of normal sensitiveness residing in the area. For the purpose of this
section, LOUD OR OFFENSIVE NOISE is that which is plainly audible within any
place of residence, business, hospital, farm property with animals or
restaurants other than the source of the sound at a distance of 150 feet or
more from the source of such sound. There shall be some exceptions to the noise
prohibition hours, which shall be as follows:
   (A)   Events planned, coordinated and wholly sponsored and conducted by the
city and that are held in Caldwell Memorial Park may exceed the hour of 11:00
p.m. for loud noise as defined herein and said loud noise may continue to the
hour of 1:00 a.m. on Fridays and/or Saturdays only;
   (B)   Events or activities, regardless of who plans, sponsors and conducts
them, that take place within the downtown core area may exceed the hour of 11:
00 p.m. for loud noise as defined herein and said loud noise may continue to
the hour of 1:00 a.m. on Fridays and/or Saturdays only. The downtown core area
is that area between, and including, the southerly side of Cleveland Boulevard
to the southerly side of the railroad tracks and from the westerly side of 5th
Avenue to the westerly side of 10th Avenue; and
   (C)   Events or activities, regardless of who plans, sponsors and conducts
them, that take place within the City Event Center area and the City
Entertainment Center area may exceed the hour of 11:00 p.m. for loud noise as
defined herein and said loud noise may continue to the hour of 1:00 a.m. on
Fridays and/or Saturdays only. The City Event Center area is that area between
and including the northerly side of Cleveland Boulevard to the southerly side
of the railroad tracks and from the easterly side of South 21st Avenue to the
westerly side of East Linden Street. The City Entertainment Center area is that
area between and including the southerly side of the Boise River to Centennial
Way, and from the railroad tracks to I-84.
(Ord. 2877, passed 6-20-2011; Ord. 3636, passed 11-4-2024)
§ 07-13-04 LOUD AMPLIFICATION DEVICES UPON OR WITHIN MOTOR VEHICLES PROHIBITED;
AIR COMPRESSION BRAKES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Loud amplification devices prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any
person to operate or permit the operation of any loud amplification device upon
or within a motor vehicle in such a manner that the sound therefrom is plainly
audible upon a public right-of-way or street at a distance of 50 feet or more
from the source of the sound.
   (B)   Air compression brakes prohibited.
      (1)   Prohibited. The use of air compression brakes (also commonly known
as “Jake brakes”) by motor vehicles within the city limits of the city is
hereby prohibited and shall be unlawful except under emergency circumstances
where the use of air compression brakes is necessary to prevent an accident or
injury to persons or property.
      (2)   Exemption. Motor vehicles owned and operated by a Fire Department
are specifically exempted from the prohibitions of this section.
      (3)   Penalty. Any person who violates any provision of this section
shall be deemed guilty of an infraction and, upon judgment thereof, shall be
subject to the fixed penalty for moving traffic infractions set by the State
Infractions Rules 9(b)(5).
(Ord. 2994, passed 4-6-2015)
§ 07-13-05 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following sounds are exempted from the provisions of this chapter:
   (A)   Sounds caused by an emergency vehicle or personnel when responding to
an emergency call or acting in time of emergency;
   (B)   Sounds caused by activities upon any municipal, school, religious or
publicly owned property or facility, provided that such activities have been
authorized by the owner of such property or facility or its agent;
   (C)   Sounds caused by parades, fireworks displays or any other event for
which a permit for the activity is required and has been obtained from the
authorized governmental entity within such hours as may be imposed as a
condition for the issuance of said permit;
   (D)   Sounds caused by locomotives or other railroad equipment;
   (E)   Sounds caused by burglar alarms that are not in violation of this
code;
   (F)   Sounds caused by safety warning devices required by law;
   (G)   Sounds caused by devices approved for use within the confines of the
particular zoning designation that the device is located or pursuant to a
conditional use permit (i.e., drive-through window speakers, ice cream vendors,
car lot PA systems);
   (H)   Sounds emanating from devices used within the common areas of a multi-
unit facility whose use has been approved by the owners or management of the
facility. Said use must be in compliance with any regulations imposed by the
owners or management of the facility to be exempt under this chapter. This
exemption only applies in relation to other units within the same facility; and
   (I)   Sound created by or the result of regular business activities in areas
appropriately zoned for such activities. This exception includes, without
limitation, regular industrial and flight operations at the Caldwell Executive
Airport.
(Ord. 2456, passed 1-21-2003; Ord. 3410, passed 12-6-2022)
§ 07-13-06 PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2456, passed 1-21-2003)
TITLE 8: PUBLIC SAFETY
   Chapter
      
1.   OFFENSES
      
3.   ANIMAL CONTROL REGULATIONS
      
5.   MINORS’ CURFEW
      
6.   PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY
      
7.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES, POSSESSION IN PUBLIC PLACES
      
9.   BURGLARY AND FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS
      
11.   FIREWORKS
      
13.   LIFE SAFETY AND FIRE PREVENTION CODE
      
15.   TRAINS, REGULATION OF SPEED
      
17.   OPEN BURNING OR DUMPING OF RUBBISH AND OTHER MATERIALS
      
19.   METHAMPHETAMINE PRECURSOR DRUGS
      
21.   GRAFFITI
CHAPTER 1: OFFENSES
Section
   
08-01-01   State law adopted
   
08-01-03   General offense
   
08-01-05   Runaway
   
08-01-07   Driving or riding on golf courses
   
08-01-09   No posting on fences, power poles, telephone poles; consent for
   
08-01-11   Restricted use of city parks
   
08-01-13   Worm prodding prohibited
   
08-01-15   Misuse of library materials
   
08-01-17   Keeping of junk restricted
   
08-01-19   Water flowing upon streets
   
08-01-21   Deposits of injurious material on thoroughfares
   
08-01-25   Air guns; firearms
   
08-01-27   Disorderly conduct
   
08-01-29   Smoking prohibited at City Events Center
   
08-01-30   Destruction of public property
§ 08-01-01 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted that certain code identified as the State
Criminal Code, more particularly Idaho Code Title 18, and as the same may
hereafter be revised by the state legislature, or amended by the governing
body, and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated as an ordinance of the
city as fully as though set forth at length herein.
   (B)   A copy of said state law, together with any revisions or amendments,
duly certified by the City Clerk, shall be kept on file in the office of the
Chief of Police for use and examination of and by the public.
§ 08-01-03 GENERAL OFFENSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any act or fail to perform any
requirement which is prohibited or required by state law, insofar as such laws
are applicable to municipal government.
§ 08-01-05 RUNAWAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years without just
cause to be living or found to be living, or remain to be a person in the city
who has run away from, or out of the control of his or her parent, guardian or
other legal custodian.
(Ord. 1083, passed 9-6-1966)
§ 08-01-07 DRIVING OR RIDING ON GOLF COURSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive a motor vehicle, a snowmobile
or ride a motorcycle, motorbike or bicycle upon the fairways or green of either
the Fairview or Purple Sage golf courses of the city, excepting an authorized
golf cart on the fairways in accordance with the rules and regulations as
established by the City Golf Board or authorized maintenance vehicles and
equipment.
(Ord. 1158, passed 3-17-1969)
§ 08-01-09 NO POSTING ON FENCES, POWER POLES, TELEPHONE POLES; CONSENT FOR.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to post, paint, tack or otherwise attach
any notice or other advertising matter to any fence, wall, post or building or
other property until first obtaining the consent of the owner of such property,
notwithstanding adherence to all of the requirements listed in §
10-02-06 of the zoning regulations concerning signs and their allowed placement
thereof. It shall be unlawful for any person to post, paint, tack or otherwise
attach any notices or advertising matter to any telephone, electric or other
poles. However, these provisions shall not interfere or prevent the posting of
notices required by law to be posted.
(Ord. 1265, passed 6-5-1972; Ord. 2805, passed 11-2-2009)
§ 08-01-11 RESTRICTED USE OF CITY PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, sit, sleep, lay, rest, camp or
remain in a municipal park between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.,
unless proper permission is obtained from the Parks Department and any required
special event permits have been issued.
(Ord. 3043, passed 3-21-2016)
§ 08-01-13 WORM PRODDING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in activities involving the
prodding, whether by electronic means or not, and digging of worms or insects
on any property owned by the city.
(Ord. 1847, passed 4-2-1990)
§ 08-01-15 MISUSE OF LIBRARY MATERIALS.
   (A)   Time limit. No person shall willfully retain any book, newspaper,
magazine, pamphlet, manuscript or other property belonging to the city public
library or any branch thereof, for more than 30 days after notice in writing to
return the same, given after the expiration of the time within which by the
rules of such library such article may be kept.
   (B)   Injury to property unlawful. No person shall willfully or
intentionally cut, tear, deface, break, injure or destroy any book, map, chart,
picture, engraving, newspaper, magazine, pamphlet, manuscript or other property
belonging to the city public library or any branch thereof.
   (C)   Penalty. Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined and/or imprisoned, up to, but not exceeding, the maximum penalties set
forth in Idaho Code § 50-302, as amended.
(Ord. 1028, passed 5-4-1964; Ord. 1217, passed 5-17-1971; Ord. 1219, passed 5-
17-1971; Ord. 2669, passed 2-20-2007)
§ 08-01-17 KEEPING OF JUNK RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or keep any old articles or
materials which may be classified as junk adjacent to or in close proximity to
any schoolhouses, churches, public parks, public grounds, business buildings or
residences without first providing proper and tight buildings for the storage
of the same.
§ 08-01-19 WATER FLOWING UPON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any water to flow into or upon
any public thoroughfare.
§ 08-01-21 DEPOSITS OF INJURIOUS MATERIAL ON THOROUGHFARES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, place or allow to remain in
or upon any public thoroughfare any material or substance injurious to persons
or property.
§ 08-01-25 AIR GUNS; FIREARMS.
   (A)   Discharge of firearms prohibited. It shall be unlawful to discharge:
      (1)   Any firearms within the limits of the city; provided, however, that
this division (A) shall not be construed to prohibit any officer of the law
from discharging a firearm in the performance of his or her duty, or a person
from discharging a firearm in the lawful defense of a person or persons or
property, or a person from discharging a firearm in a manner consistent with
written authorization received from the Chief of Police, or a person from
discharging a firearm on an approved sport shooting range as defined in Idaho
Code § 55-2604; and
      (2)   Any bow or other weapon which will expel a projectile through the
action of release of a pressurized gas, compressed air, expanding gas,
explosive or other force producing means or method including, but not limited
to, objects commonly referred to as air guns, air pistols, air rifles, “BB”
guns, pellet guns, blow guns, airsoft or similar guns or paintball guns, upon
or within the public right-of-way, public parks and other public property and
ways, except at such locations as may be authorized for such purposes by the
City Council.
   (B)   Sport shooting ranges. The City Council may, at any time, upon receipt
of proper application, grant permits to sport shooting ranges, as that term is
defined and used in Idaho Code Title 55, Chapter 26, for shooting in fixed
localities and under specified rules. Such permits shall be in writing attested
by the City Clerk conforming to such requirements as the City Council shall
demand, and the permit thus issued shall be subject to revocation at any time
by action of the City Council.
   (C)   Penalties. Any violation of this section shall be considered a
misdemeanor, and shall be punished as provided in Idaho Code §§ 18-113 and 50-
302(1), as amended.
(Ord. 2914, passed 7-16-2012; Ord. 2993, passed 3-2-2015)
§ 08-01-27 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to engage in disorderly conduct within
the city limits. Every person is guilty of disorderly conduct when he or she:
      (1)   Solicits anyone to engage in, or engages in, or procures, counsels
or assists any person in engaging in lewd or dissolute conduct in any public
place or in any place open to the public or exposed to public view, or in any
place where there is present another person or persons who are offended or
annoyed thereby;
      (2)   Engages in fighting or threatening or in violent behavior;
      (3)   Uses language, an utterance or gesture, or engages in a display or
act that is obscene, physically threatening or menacing, or done in a manner
that is likely to inflict injury or incite an immediate breach of the peace;
      (4)   Makes noise that is unreasonable, considering the nature and
purpose of the actor’s conduct, location, time of day or night and other
factors that would govern the conduct of a reasonably prudent person under the
circumstances;
      (5)   Creates or maintains a hazardous or physically offensive condition;
      (6)   Accosts other persons in any public place or in any place open to
the public for the purpose of begging or soliciting alms;
      (7)   Loiters in, about or upon any street, alley or other public way or
public place, or in any place open to the public, without lawful business and
conducting himself or herself in a lewd, wanton or lascivious manner in speech
or behavior;
      (8)   Has in possession any instrument, tool or other implement for
picking locks or pockets or any implement that is usually employed or that
reasonably may be inferred to have been designed to be employed in the
commission of any felony, misdemeanor or the violation of any ordinance and who
fails to account for the possession of same;
      (9)   Occupies, lodges or sleeps in any building, structure or place,
whether public or private, or any automobile, truck, railroad car or other
similar vehicles or equipment without the permission of the owner or person
entitled to the possession or in control thereof;
      (10)   Loiters, prowls or wanders upon the private property of another,
without visible or lawful business with the owner or occupants thereof;
      (11)   Loiters or remains, without a legitimate reason, in or about a
school, not having any reason or relationship involving custody of or
responsibility for a student;
      (12)   Is in a public place and intoxicated at a level that presents a
danger to that person or others or creates a disturbance of the peace;
      (13)   Maliciously and willfully disturbs the peace or quiet of any
neighborhood, family or person, by loud or unusual noise, or by tumultuous or
offensive conduct, or by threatening, traducing, quarreling, challenging to
fight or fighting, or fires any gun or pistol;
      (14)   Enter another person’s private property without permission to
peer, peep or look through doors or windows of that property with the intent to
intrude upon or interfere with a person’s privacy, or within a public place, to
peer, peep or look into an area where a person has a reasonable expectation of
privacy and has taken steps to conceal themselves from the general public, such
as a restroom, locker room or changing room, without that person’s consent and
with the intent to invade that person’s privacy; or
      (15)   Excretes any form of human waste, including urine or feces, upon
the ground, into a body of water, or upon anything attached or setting upon
said surfaces within the city, except for toilet facilities used as receptacles
for human waste.
   (B)   A violation of this section is a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine
and/or imprisonment, up to, but not exceeding, the maximum penalties set forth
in Idaho Code § 50-302, as amended. Either or both such fine and imprisonment
may be imposed.
(Ord. 2759, passed 8-18-2008)
§ 08-01-29 SMOKING PROHIBITED AT CITY EVENTS CENTER.
   No person shall light, use or smoke any cigarette, electronic cigarette,
cigar, pipe, hookah or other similar product, while at the following locations,
commonly known collectively as the “City Events Center,” including the
surrounding premises and parking lots associated with said locations: Simplot
Stadium, O’Connor Field House, the County Fairgrounds, the City Night Rodeo
Arena, the Wolfe Field Baseball Stadium, Gabiola Field or on any other publicly
owned property located within the boundaries generally defined as lying in the
area bounded by 22nd Avenue to the northwest, Blaine Street to the southwest,
Linden Street to the southeast and the railroad tracks to the northeast. For
the purpose of this section, the term ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE shall be as set
forth in Idaho Code § 39-5702. A violation of this provision shall be an
infraction, the penalty for which shall be $100, plus court costs.
(Ord. 3046, passed 4-18-2016)
§ 08-01-30 DESTRUCTION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to damage, move, remove,
destroy, drill a hole in, dig or injure in any manner whatsoever any grass,
tree, shrub, plant, flower, soil, rock or other natural object, railing,
bridge, culvert, street, sidewalk, sign, building, equipment, bolt,
archeological, historic or cultural object or any other property whatsoever
belonging to the city or under the possession and control of the city.
   (B)   A violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor, punishable
by a fine of $1,000. If a violation of this section extends over the course of
multiple days, each separate 24-hour period during which said violation occurs
shall constitute a new and separate misdemeanor offense under this section.
(Ord. 3286, passed 7-20-2020)
CHAPTER 3: ANIMAL CONTROL REGULATIONS
Section
   
08-03-01   Title, saving clause, severability clause
   
08-03-03   Purpose and authority
   
08-03-05   Definitions
   
08-03-07   Enforcement by Animal Control Officer
   
08-03-09   Canine licensing
   
08-03-11   Fees
   
08-03-13   Canines; collar and tag
   
08-03-15   Rabies, disease and quarantine
   
08-03-17   Running at large; animal confinement
   
08-03-19   Impounding
   
08-03-21   Sale of impounded livestock
   
08-03-23   Prohibited acts
   
08-03-25   Vicious animals; dangerous animals
   
08-03-27   Violation and penalty
   
08-03-29   Uniform summons; fee and fine schedule
§ 08-03-01 TITLE, SAVING CLAUSE, SEVERABILITY CLAUSE.
   (A)   Short title. This chapter shall be known as the Animal Control
Ordinance.
   (B)   Saving clause. All other ordinances and parts of ordinances in
conflict herewith, upon the effective date of this chapter, are repealed. All
offenses committed prior to this repeal may be prosecuted and punished in the
same manner and with the same effect as if said repeal had not been made.
   (C)   Severability clause. Should any provision of this chapter be declared
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or invalid, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the other provisions of this chapter
which are hereby declared to be severable from any unconstitutional or invalid
provisions.
(Ord. 2886, passed 11-21-2011)
§ 08-03-03 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   The City Council finds that the keeping of animals for personal and
commercial purposes is important to the citizens of the city. However, the
presence of animals within the city has certain adverse consequences for the
health, safety and welfare of the public and the animals themselves. Further,
addressing such consequences imposes a regulatory and financial burden upon the
city that should, in fairness, be mitigated by the animal owning public.
Further, the imposition of legal liabilities, fines, fees and regulations upon
the animal owning public serves the purpose of such mitigation. The purpose of
this chapter is to help solve the problems caused by uncontrolled, unwanted,
undisciplined and unhealthy animals, as well as animals that are dangerous,
nuisances or subjected to certain acts harmful to the public or the animals
themselves. This chapter is enacted upon the authority derived from Idaho Code
§§ 25-2801 et seq., 50-302, 50-304, 50-319 and 50-334 and to provide for the
health, safety and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 2886, passed 11-21-2011)
§ 08-03-05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To forsake and desert an animal previously under the custody or
possession of a person without making reasonable arrangements for its proper
care, sustenance and shelter.
   ABUSE. Any case in which an animal has been the victim of intentional or
negligent conduct resulting in the animal’s bruising, bleeding, malnutrition,
dehydration, burns, fractures or breaks of bones, subdural hematoma, soft
tissue swelling or death and lack of veterinary care or attention.
   ANIMAL. Any organism other than human beings needing food to maintain and
sustain its life and which generally has mobility and a developed central
nervous system.
   ANIMAL CONTROL DIRECTOR. The Chief of Police of the City Police Department
or his or her designee.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any law enforcement officer authorized by state law
to enforce state law or city ordinances within the city, including, without
limitation, any individual or entity contracting with the city to provide
animal control or animal shelter services.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. The building or facility providing animal shelter services
to the city.
   ANIMAL SHELTER DIRECTOR. The person contracting with the city to provide
animal shelter services.
   AT LARGE. An animal off the premises of its owner and not under the
immediate control of the owner or member of the owner’s household, either by
leash, cord, chain or other means of physical restraint.
   BITE. To cut, wound, grip, hold or tear with the teeth.
   CANINE. Dogs, including, without limitation, those that are either male or
female, whether neutered or spayed, whether fully domesticated, wild, feral,
part wolf, part coyote, entirely wolf, entirely coyote or of any breed or mixed
breed.
   CITY. The City of Caldwell and those areas within the corporate city limits.
   CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Caldwell, Idaho.
   CRUEL or CRUELTY. Any or all of the following: the intentional and malicious
infliction of pain, physical suffering, injury or death upon an animal; to
maliciously kill, maim, wound, overdrive, overload, drive when overloaded,
overwork, torture, torment, deprive of necessary sustenance, drink or shelter,
cruelly beat, mutilate or cruelly kill an animal; to subject an animal to
needless suffering, inflict unnecessary cruelty, drive, ride or otherwise use
an animal when same is unfit; to abandon an animal; or to negligently confine
an animal in unsanitary conditions or to negligently house an animal in
inadequate facilities; to negligently fail to provide sustenance, water,
shelter or veterinary care to an animal; or to negligently fail to provide
routine care, grooming or hoof care to the extent that it interferes with the
animal’s performance or ability to thrive.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any animal which, due to its size, breed, temperament,
health, training or lack of training, location, use or other circumstance poses
a risk of injury to any person is DANGEROUS. No animal is or may be declared
DANGEROUS if the animal is startled, abused, harassed or otherwise provoked.
   ENCLOSURE. A kennel, fence or other structure forming or causing containment
suitable to prevent the entry of young children, and suitable to confine an
animal in conjunction with other measures which may be taken such as tethering
or caging of the animal. ENCLOSURES shall be securely locked and designed with
secure sides, top and bottom and shall be sufficient to prevent the animal from
escaping.
   IMPOUND. An animal in the custody of the Animal Shelter Director or an
animal control officer.
   LIVESTOCK. Horses, mules, donkeys, burros, llamas, cattle, sheep, buffalo,
goats and pigs.
   OWNER. Any person owning, harboring, keeping, possessing, caring or having
custodial duties over any animal. Where the OWNER of an animal is a minor, the
parent or guardian of such minor shall be liable as an owner for compliance
with all provisions of this chapter.
   SERVICE ANIMAL. A service animal is a dog that is individually trained to do
work or perform tasks for people with disabilities. Examples of such work or
tasks include guiding people who are blind, alerting people who are deaf,
pulling a wheelchair, alerting and protecting a person who is having a seizure,
reminding a person with mental illness to take prescribed medications, calming
a person with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) during an anxiety attack or
performing other duties. SERVICE ANIMALS are working animals, not pets. The
work or task a dog has been trained to provide must be directly related to the
person’s disability. Dogs whose sole function is to provide comfort or
emotional support do not qualify as SERVICE ANIMALS under the ADA.
   SHELTER. Any structure or object that provides protection from the sun and/
or elements (inclement weather). Said structure or object must be solid or
permanent enough to uphold against the elements.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL.
      (1)   Any of the following:
         (a)   Any animal which, when unprovoked, in a vicious or terrorizing
manner, approaches any person in apparent attitude of attack upon the streets,
sidewalks and public grounds or places or private property not owned or
possessed by the owner of the animal;
         (b)   Any animal with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to
attack unprovoked, to cause injury or to otherwise endanger the safety of human
beings, domestic animals or livestock;
         (c)   Any animal which bites, inflicts injury, assaults or otherwise
attacks a human being, domestic animal or livestock without provocation; or
         (d)   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the
purpose of fighting or any animal trained for fighting.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the definition of a VICIOUS ANIMAL above, no animal
may be declared VICIOUS if an injury or damage is sustained by a person who, at
the time such injury or damage was sustained, was committing a willful trespass
or other tort upon the premises occupied by the owner of the animal or was
teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the animal or was committing or
attempting to commit a crime. No animal may be declared VICIOUS if the animal
was protecting or defending a human being within the immediate vicinity of the
animal from an unjustified attack or assault.
(Ord. 2950, passed 11-18-2013; Ord. 3166, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 08-03-07 ENFORCEMENT BY ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   (A)   Responsibility of enforcement. The enforcement of this chapter shall
be the responsibility of the animal control officers within the incorporated
areas of the city. Fees will be collected by the animal control officers, if
applicable, to remove deceased small animals from public roads and rights-of-
way.
   (B)   Interfering with animal control officer. It is unlawful for any person
to hinder, molest or in any way interfere with any animal control officer while
the officer is lawfully engaged in the performance of his or her duties. Any
person who pleads guilty to, is found guilty of or is in any manner convicted
of a violation of this division (B) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall
be punished as provided in Idaho Code §§ 18-113 and 50-302(1), as amended.
(Ord. 2886, passed 11-21-2011)
§ 08-03-09 CANINE LICENSING.
   (A)   Canine license required; application.
      (1)   License required. It shall be unlawful for any person to own,
harbor, keep or possess a canine more than six months of age within the city
without first procuring a license.
      (2)   Exception. The provisions of this section shall not apply to any
person visiting the city for a period not exceeding 30 days, and owning or
possessing a canine, if such canine is currently licensed by another licensing
authority or if such person is a permanent resident where no such license is
required.
      (3)   Term of license. Canine licenses may be purchased for a one-year
period or a three-year period as set forth in the scheduled billing cycle
adopted by the Animal Control Director. However, canines under one year of age
may only be licensed for a period of one year. All canine licenses shall begin
on the date of issuance or, if later, the date when a rabies vaccination is
completed as provided in §
08-03-15(D) and shall remain in effect through the designated date of
expiration.
      (4)   Application; fee. The owner shall make application to the City
Clerk, or the Clerk’s designated agent, including those local veterinarians
authorized by the City Clerk to issue licenses, and pay a license fee according
to the fee schedule adopted by the City Council.
      (5)   Proof of spay/neuter; rabies vaccination required. No canine will
be licensed as spayed or neutered without proof that such surgery was
performed. No canine will be licensed without proof of current rabies
vaccination as provided in §
08-03-15(D).
      (6)   Receipt; tags; replacement and renewal licenses. Upon receipt of
application for license and payment of fees, the person issuing the license
shall issue a receipt with the owner’s name, the number of the license, the sex
(or status of spayed or neutered) of the canine and the amount paid together
with a metal tag bearing the number corresponding to the number of the receipt.
If a license is lost, the City Clerk, or the Clerk’s designated agent, shall,
upon application and payment of the appropriate fee, issue a replacement
license. Renewal licenses may be purchased within 30 days prior to the
designated date of expiration of the current license.
      (7)   Service animal; fees waived. License fees shall be waived for any
service animal that has been properly trained for the purpose of and is used to
guide or assist a blind or partially blind person, a person with impaired
hearing or any other disabled person who uses a bona fide service animal.
   (B)   Unsterilized canines. It shall be unlawful for any person to own,
harbor, keep or possess an unsterilized canine more than six months of age
within the incorporated areas of the city without obtaining a license as
provided by this section.
      (1)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply in the
following instances.
         (a)   The provisions of this division (B)(1) regarding licensing of
unsterilized canines shall not apply to any person visiting the city for a
period not exceeding 30 days, and owning or possessing a canine, if such canine
is currently licensed by another licensing authority or if such person is a
permanent resident where no such license is required.
         (b)   If a licensed veterinarian states, in writing, that the canine
is unfit to undergo the required surgical procedure because of a health
condition. The age of a canine does not automatically constitute a prohibitive
health condition for purposes of this division (B)(1). The veterinarian must
describe the physical condition or symptoms of the canine making it unfit to
undergo the required surgery.
      (2)   License for unsterilized canine. To possess an unsterilized canine,
an individual must obtain a license as set forth herein and pay the appropriate
fee. The license shall be issued or renewed only if the following conditions
have been met.
         (a)   The canine is examined by a licensed veterinarian.
         (b)   The canine has current vaccinations for rabies.
         (c)   The individual has not had more than two violations of the
canine portions of this chapter within the past 24 months.
         (d)   Upon the third impound of the same unsterilized canine, the
canine shall be sterilized before it is returned to the owner. The owner shall
be responsible for the cost of sterilization and other fees associated with the
impoundment of their canine.
   (C)   Failure to purchase and maintain required license(s). It shall be
unlawful for an owner or custodian of any canine to fail to purchase or
maintain the licenses required by this section. Any person found in violation
of this provision shall be subject to the penalties set forth in §
08-03-27. However, repeated violations shall only constitute a misdemeanor
where the repeated failure to purchase or maintain the required canine license
more than two times within five years involves the same canine. Failures to
purchase and maintain licenses for different canines shall be treated as
separate and distinct offenses.
(Ord. 2886, passed 11-21-2011; Ord. 2950, passed 11-18-2013)
§ 08-03-11 FEES.
   (A)   License fees. The City Clerk and Animal Control Director are entitled
to charge fees in connection with canine licenses (establishing different fees
for sterilized and unsterilized canines and canines with and without
microchips) and replacement of lost licenses. The amount of the fees charged
shall be as established by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   Canine impound fees. The City Clerk and Animal Control Director are
entitled to charge a fee for impounding canines. Said fee may increase for each
subsequent offense. A fee may also be charged for boarding and keeping
impounded animals, rabies inoculation, adoption fees, sterilization, necessary
medical care and other costs reasonably related to services of the animal
shelter provided to an individual animal. The amount of the fees charged shall
be established by resolution of the City Council.
   (C)   Seizure of animal. If any animal is seized under this chapter, the
owner or keeper shall be liable for the reasonable costs of the seizure and the
care, keeping and disposal of the animal. Reasonable costs shall include, but
shall not be limited to, transportation, medical, board, shelter and farrier
costs. The owner or keeper of the animal shall be responsible for such fees and
costs whether or not the owner recovers possession of said animal or whether
said animal is adopted.
   (D)   Miscellaneous fees. The City Clerk and Animal Control Director are
entitled to charge miscellaneous fees. The amount and purpose of the fees
charged shall be established by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 2886, passed 11-21-2011; Ord. 2950, passed 11-18-2013; Ord. 3166, passed
8-6-2018)
§ 08-03-13 CANINES; COLLAR AND TAG.
   (A)   Collar and tag required; exception. Every canine shall at all times
wear a substantial and durable collar to which shall be securely attached the
required metal license tag. If a canine cannot safely wear a collar and/or
metal license tag, it shall be excepted from such requirement upon application
and upon proof to the Animal Control Director that it has implanted a current,
valid and functioning microchip providing substantially the same information
required on a metal license tag.
   (B)   Supply of tags and forms. The canine tags and receipt forms required
for compliance with this chapter shall be provided to participating
veterinarians by the Animal Control Director or his or her designated agent.
   (C)   Distribution, remuneration of cost. Procedures for distribution of
tags, receipt forms and remuneration of cost shall be established by the Animal
Control Director or his or her designated agent.
   (D)   Veterinarian reports. Each participating veterinarian dispensing
canine tags shall submit a report to the Animal Control Director monthly
accounting for licenses issued and fees collected.
   (E)   False or misleading license tags. It shall be unlawful for any person
to allow any canine owned, kept or harbored by him or her to wear a license tag
received in connection with a former application, a license tag originally
issued to another canine or any imitation of a license tag.
   (F)   Failure to comply with collar and tag requirements. It shall be
unlawful for an owner or custodian of any canine to fail to comply with the
collar and tag requirements of this section. Any person found in violation of
this provision shall be subject to the penalties set forth in §
08-03-27.
(Ord. 2886, passed 11-21-2011)
§ 08-03-15 RABIES, DISEASE AND QUARANTINE.
   (A)   Afflicted animals prohibited. It is unlawful for a person other than a
licensed veterinarian or the Animal Shelter Director to own, keep or harbor any
animal afflicted with rabies.
   (B)   Animals suspected of rabies. It is the duty of every owner of an
animal showing symptoms of rabies (such as changes in behavior, aggression,
foaming at the mouth, restlessness, trembling and fever) and for which the
owner has no proof of current rabies vaccination or which has bitten any person
causing an abrasion of the skin to surrender the animal for confinement and
isolation at the animal shelter or with a licensed veterinarian for a period
not to exceed 15 days; provided, that for animals with proof of a current
rabies vaccination, the veterinarian has the discretion to allow the animal to
be isolated and contained in an enclosure on the owner’s property under such
terms and conditions the veterinarian shall impose. If such animal shall be
determined to be free of rabies by the Animal Shelter Director or licensed
veterinarian, it shall be released from isolation and confinement. The owner
must make payment of the regular fee for keeping such animal isolated and
confined, if applicable. If such fee is not paid, the animal shall be subject
to disposal as provided in this chapter.
   (C)   Contagious diseased animals. Any animal which has a contagious disease
shall be kept in a secure enclosure and not be shipped or removed from the
premises of the owner of such animal except under the supervision of the Animal
Shelter Director or a licensed veterinarian.
   (D)   Rabies inoculation. It is unlawful to keep or harbor any canine over
the age of six months in the city unless such canine has been inoculated
against rabies by a licensed veterinarian within the preceding three years. No
license, except as provided below, shall be issued for any canine over the age
of six months unless the applicant for such license presents a certificate
signed by a licensed veterinarian establishing that the canine has been
vaccinated for rabies for the duration of the license period. A temporary
license, valid for only five business days after issuance, may be issued to a
canine owner who must, within five days of the date of issuance of said
license, procure a certificate signed by a licensed veterinarian establishing
that the canine has been vaccinated for the duration of the license period. A
temporary license will be void after five days if the rabies vaccination has
not been completed.
   (E)   Failure to comply. It shall be unlawful for an owner or custodian of
any animal to fail to comply with the requirements of this section. Any person
found in violation of this provision shall be subject to the penalties set
forth in §
08-03-27.
(Ord. 2886, passed 11-21-2011)
§ 08-03-17 RUNNING AT LARGE; ANIMAL CONFINEMENT.
   (A)   Animals at large. It shall be unlawful for any animal, canine or
livestock owned or possessed by an individual to be at large upon the roads,
streets or alleys of the city or any public place of the city or upon any
premises other than its own. This provision applies regardless of whether the
animal is licensed or not.
   (B)   Confinement of female canines in heat. It shall be unlawful for the
owner, keeper or possessor of a female canine in the estrus state (in heat) to
negligently fail, neglect or refuse to confine the canine in an enclosure
preventing nuisance or undesired fertilization by male canines unless
restrained by the owner and under the immediate control of the owner.
   (C)   Herding or driving animals. It shall be unlawful for anyone to herd or
drive any animal through the city without having said animal under control by
means of rope, strap or other device by which it may be led, unless such animal
is being driven in harness or hauled. This division (C) shall not be construed
as prohibiting stock workers from driving herds through the city when necessary
to transfer them from one pasture to another or for the purpose of shipping,
but such stock workers so driving stock through the city shall be liable to
property owners for all damages done to their property by such stock while
being driven through the city, whether or not such damage is caused by the
negligence of said stock worker or his or her agents. Such stock shall be
driven through the city in as short a time as possible.
   (D)   Fowl or poultry. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep fowl,
guineas or poultry unless such fowl or poultry are at all times kept upon his
or her own premises, within a shed, pen or other enclosure sufficient to
restrain said fowl or poultry from trespassing upon the property of others.
   (E)   Failure to comply. It shall be unlawful for an owner or custodian of
any animal to fail to comply with the requirements of this section. Any person
found in violation of this provision shall be subject to the penalties set
forth in §
08-03-27.
(Ord. 2886, passed 11-21-2011; Ord. 3166, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 08-03-19 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   Apprehension of canine, animal or livestock running at large. It shall
be the duty of any animal control officer to apprehend any canine, animal or
livestock found running at large contrary to the provisions of this chapter,
and to impound such canine, animal or livestock in the animal shelter or other
suitable place; provided, that if any fierce, dangerous or vicious canine,
animal or livestock found running at large cannot be safely taken up and
impounded, such canine, animal or livestock may be slain by law enforcement
personnel.
   (B)   Impoundment by officers. In addition to any other remedies provided in
this title, animal control officers and police officers are authorized to
impound or impound for safekeeping, and confine at the animal shelter any of
the following: any animal that appears unattended or abandoned, e.g., due to
the owner’s death, arrest or eviction from his or her residence, and there is
no sign of care for the animal or there is no known person to take custody of
such animal. The following information will be kept on all impounded animals:
      (1)   A complete description of the animal, including tag numbers, if
any;
      (2)   The manner and date of impound;
      (3)   The location of impoundment and name of the officer impounding the
animal;
      (4)   The name and address of any person relinquishing an animal to the
impound facility;
      (5)   The name and address of the person redeeming the animal and the
date thereof;
      (6)   All applicable violations of this title;
      (7)   All applicable fees and penalties;
      (8)   All expenses accrued during impoundment;
      (9)   The date and manner of disposition, including the name of the
person adopting the animal, if applicable; and
      (10)   If licensed, the name and address of the owner of the animal and
the license number.
   (C)   Traps. Animal control officers are authorized to place humane animal
traps on public or private property upon request or permission of the property
owner. Such traps shall be checked regularly by the animal control officers.
   (D)   Record to be made. The animal control officer impounding or slaying
any animal shall record a description of the animal and whether it is licensed
or not.
   (E)   Recovery of impounded canines, animals or livestock. The owner of any
canine, animal or livestock impounded may recover possession of same upon
payment of all applicable fines and fees. Additionally, if a canine over six
months of age is impounded and has not been sterilized, the owner or claimant
must either secure the immediate sterilization of the canine or qualify for and
receive an unsterilized canine license. Additionally, if the Animal Shelter
Director cannot determine whether an impounded canine over the age of six
months has been inoculated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian within the
preceding three years, the Animal Shelter Director may immediately inoculate
the animal at the expense of the owner or claimant. If the owner or
representative of the owner of any canine, animal or livestock impounded shall
fail to pay the required fees within 24 hours after actual notice or within
five working days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays) after reasonable
or diligent effort to notify the owner or representative of the owner, the
Animal Shelter Director may dispose of any canine, animal or livestock either
through adoption (provided the new owner shall pay the required fees) or
through euthanasia.
   (F)   Adoption allowed. Canines licensed or unlicensed, animals or livestock
which have been held for five working days (excluding Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays) may be adopted from the animal shelter after due notification to the
owner (if known) and upon payment of an adoption fee. Any person adopting a
canine from the animal shelter shall be required to furnish to the Animal
Shelter Director proof of rabies vaccination within three business days of
adoption. Animals under six months of age will be given a temporary
identification tag by the animal shelter until receipt of proof of rabies
vaccination. Temporary identification tag expires when canine is six months of
age or older.
   (G)   Surrender of canines, animals or livestock held in protective custody.
If any canine, animal or livestock held in protective custody is not
surrendered by the owner or claimant to the animal shelter within a period of
30 days after impoundment, that owner or claimant shall automatically lose all
rights to such canine, animal or livestock and same may be adopted out by the
animal shelter. In the event, however, that the owner or claimant has not
contacted the animal shelter to make arrangements to surrender such canine,
animal or livestock and/or the animal shelter has found suitable placement for
such canine, animal or livestock at least 21 days after impoundment, then the
animal shelter may adopt out such canine, animal or livestock.
   (H)   Diseased animals; destruction. Any animal impounded and suffering from
serious injury or disease may be euthanized at the discretion of the Animal
Shelter Director.
   (I)   Freeing of impounded or enclosed animals prohibited. It shall be
unlawful to break open or in any manner directly or indirectly aid or assist in
the breaking open of any pen or enclosure with the intent of releasing any
animal when such animal has been detained by the owner or those individuals
authorized to detain animals under this chapter. Any violation of this division
(I) regarding the freeing of impounded animals shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall be punished as provided in Idaho Code §§ 18-113 and 50-302(1), as
amended.
   (J)   Livestock. If any livestock shall be found running at large contrary
to the provisions of this chapter, the animal control officer or any other
peace officer of the county or participating municipalities may take up and
confine the same in a livestock yard or other suitable place pursuant to Idaho
Code § 25-2302, after first notifying the State Brand Inspector of the
situation and discussing his or her intentions concerning the same.
   (K)   Failure to comply. It shall be unlawful for an owner or custodian of
any canine to fail to comply with the requirements of this section. Any person
found in violation of this provision shall be subject to the penalties set
forth in §
08-03-27.
(Ord. 2950, passed 11-18-2013)
§ 08-03-21 SALE OF IMPOUNDED LIVESTOCK.
   (A)   Notice of sale. At any time after any livestock shall have been
impounded, and after notification of the Brand Inspector, the Animal Control
Director may sell any such livestock and shall give notice of sale by posting a
notice at the animal shelter describing the animal impounded and notifying the
owner by certified mail, if the owner is known, to pay the charges thereon and
remove same prior to the time fixed for the sale thereof. Otherwise, the animal
will be sold at public sale at a time and place named in said notice, which
time shall not be less than 15 days from the date of the posting of such
notices.
   (B)   Revenue from sale. In case any animal sold pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter be sold for more than is sufficient to pay the fees and charges
aforesaid, such excess shall be deposited with the Animal Control Director, who
shall pay such excess to the owner of such animal or animals or to the person
entitled to possession of the same upon claim and proper proof of ownership
within six months from date of said sale. If, after six months, such excess is
not claimed, the excess fees shall be disposed of in accordance with Idaho Code
§ 25-2312.
(Ord. 2886, passed 11-21-2011; Ord. 2950, passed 11-18-2013)
§ 08-03-23 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Animals in public buildings or transport. It is unlawful for any owner
to permit, allow, keep or carry any animal in, upon or within any building used
for government business and open to the public or in a public transportation
vehicle. Provided that this prohibition shall not apply to any service animal,
a canine specially trained in connection with law enforcement activities or
when the general public is specifically invited to bring animals.
   (B)   Disturbing the peace. It is unlawful for any owner of an animal to
fail to exercise reasonably necessary control of the animal to prevent it from
disturbing the peace and quiet of any neighborhood, family or person, by
barking, whining or making loud or unusual noises, or by running on, defecating
in, digging in or otherwise damaging cultivated gardens or lawns that are not
the property of the owner, or causing unreasonable odor off the property of the
owner.
   (C)   Animal fighting. It is unlawful to allow animals to fight and
violations shall be a misdemeanor pursuant to Idaho Code §§ 25-3506 and 25-
3507, as amended.
   (D)   Animals unattended in vehicles. No person shall leave a canine or
other animal in any unattended motor vehicle without adequate ventilation and
sanitary conditions, or in such a manner as to subject the animal to extreme
temperatures which adversely affect the animal’s health and safety.
   (E)   Cruelty to animals.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to inflict cruelty upon any
canine, animal or livestock as set forth in the definition of cruelty, whether
in his or her care or charge, whether belonging to himself or herself or any
other person.
      (2)   It is the duty of any animal control officer or peace officer to
take possession of any animal for which probable cause exists to believe a
violation of Idaho Code Title 25, Chapter 35, Cruelty to Animals, has been
committed or cruelty as defined in this chapter, and deliver such animal to the
county animal shelter or veterinarian at the discretion of the animal control
officer.
   (F)   Abandonment of animals.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon any canine, animal
or livestock, as set forth in the definition of abandon, whether in his or her
care or charge, whether belonging to himself or herself or any other person.
      (2)   It is the duty of any animal control officer or peace officer to
take possession of any animal for which probable cause exists to believe an
animal has been abandoned, as defined in this chapter, and deliver such animal
to the county animal shelter or veterinarian at the discretion of the animal
control officer.
   (G)   Abuse of animals.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit abuse upon any
canine, animal or livestock as set forth in the definition of abuse, whether in
his or her care or charge, whether belonging to himself or herself or any other
person.
      (2)   It is the duty of any animal control officer or peace officer to
take possession of any animal for which probable cause exists to believe an
animal has been subject to abuse as defined in this chapter, and deliver such
animal to the County Animal Shelter or veterinarian at the discretion of the
animal control officer.
   (H)   Violation and penalty for prohibited acts. It shall be unlawful for an
owner or custodian of any animal to violate any of the prohibitions of this
section. Any person found in violation of this provision shall be subject to
the penalties set forth in §
08-03-27.
(Ord. 2886, passed 11-21-2011; Ord. 2950, passed 11-18-2013; Ord. 3001, passed
6-15-2015)
§ 08-03-25 VICIOUS ANIMALS; DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   Vicious animals unlawful. It is unlawful to own, possess or have
custody of a vicious animal anywhere within the city.
      (1)   Vicious or dangerous animal. For the purpose of this section, a
VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS ANIMAL is:
         (a)   Any animal which, when unprovoked, in a vicious or terrorizing
manner, physically attacks, wounds, bites or otherwise injures any person upon
the streets, sidewalks, any public grounds or places, or private property not
owned or possessed by the owner of the animal;
         (b)   Any animal with a prior documented history, in any jurisdiction,
of unprovoked attack or biting of persons or other domestic animal(s); or
         (c)   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the
purposes of fighting or attacking people or any animal trained for fighting or
attacking persons or animals.
      (2)   Exceptions.
         (a)   No animal may be declared vicious or dangerous if an injury or
damage is sustained by a person who, at the time that such injury or damage was
sustained:
            1.   Was committing a willful trespass or other crime or tort upon
the premises occupied by the owner of the animal, whether or not the animal’s
owner is present at the time of the unlawful trespass or other crime;
            2.   Was teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the animal; or
            3.   Was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
         (b)   No animal may be declared vicious or dangerous if the dog was
protecting or defending a person within the immediate vicinity of the dog from
an unjustified attack or assault.
         (c)   No dog owned, maintained or kept for work as a law enforcement
dog, either currently or retired, may be declared vicious or dangerous if the
action that would be defined as vicious or dangerous took place while the dog
was acting within its capacity for law enforcement purposes.
   (B)   Seizure, impoundment; costs. In the event that the animal control
officer has probable cause to believe an animal is vicious or dangerous and may
pose a threat of serious harm to human beings or other domestic animals, the
animal control officer may seize and impound the animal in the animal shelter
pending a judicial determination on any charge related to vicious or dangerous
animals.
   (C)   Dangerous animal adjudication, fines and fees. It is unlawful to own,
possess or have custody of a dangerous animal anywhere within the city unless
such animal is secured at all times within an enclosure on the property of the
owner. If the animal is found to be dangerous by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the owner shall secure the animal at all times thereafter within
an enclosure on the property of the owner or shall remove the animal
permanently from the city. The owner shall be liable to the animal shelter for
any and all fines and fees chargeable for its services to the animal while
impounded. In the event the animal is not dangerous, it shall be returned to
the owner, who will not be responsible to the animal shelter for impound fees,
but may be responsible for any other fines or fees legitimately assessed for
sterilization, licenses, rabies inoculation, necessary medical care and the
like. An animal control officer may again charge that such animal is dangerous
upon subsequent actions of the animal.
   (D)   Vicious animal adjudication, destruction, removal from city, fines and
fees. If the animal is found to be vicious by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the animal shall be destroyed or permanently removed from the
city by the owner. The owner shall be liable to the animal shelter for any and
all fines and fees chargeable for its services to the animal while impounded.
In the event the animal is not vicious, it shall be returned to the owner who
will not be responsible to the animal shelter for impound fees, but may be
responsible for any other fines or fees legitimately assessed for
sterilization, licenses, rabies inoculation, necessary medical care and the
like. An animal control officer may again charge that such animal is vicious
upon subsequent actions of the animal.
   (E)   Return of vicious or dangerous animal. If an owner elects to
permanently remove a vicious or dangerous animal from the city and such animal
is again impounded from within the city, it shall be destroyed. If an owner
elects to permanently remove a vicious or dangerous animal from the city and
such animal is again impounded from within the city, said owner shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in Idaho Code §§ 18-113 and
50-302(1), as amended.
   (F)   Animal which bites, injures or attacks. Any owner or custodian of any
animal which bites, inflicts injury, assaults or otherwise attacks a human
being or domestic animal without provocation shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall be punished as provided in Idaho Code §§ 18-113 and 50-302(1), as
amended.
   (G)   Vicious animal running at large. Any owner or custodian of any vicious
animal running at large shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished
as provided in Idaho Code §§ 18-113 and 50-302(1), as amended.
(Ord. 2886, passed 11-21-2011; Ord. 3201, passed 3-4-2019)
§ 08-03-27 VIOLATION AND PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to comply with the provisions of
this chapter.
   (A)   Infractions. Any person found in violation of any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of an infraction and shall be punished as provided in
Idaho Code § 50-302(1), as amended, by an imposition of a fine in an amount to
be set by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   Third offense in five years. Any person who pleads guilty to, is found
guilty of, or is in any manner convicted of more than two violations of the
same provision of this chapter within five years shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in Idaho Code §§ 18-113 and 50-
302(1), as amended.
   (C)   Failure to pay fine. Failure to pay the fine for an infraction imposed
for a violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor and shall be punished as
provided in Idaho Code §§ 18-113 and 50-302(1), as amended.
   (D)   Misdemeanors. Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter to the
contrary, the Animal Control Director, animal control officer or prosecutor
shall have the discretion to charge violations of §§
08-03-07(B) (interfering with animal control officer),
08-03-15 (failure to quarantine),
08-03-17(A) (livestock at large),
08-03-19(I) (freeing of impounded or enclosed animals prohibited),
08-03-23(C) (animal fighting),
08-03-23(D) (animals unattended),
08-03-23(E) (cruelty to animals),
08-03-23(F) (abandonment),
08-03-23(G) (abuse) and
08-03-25 (vicious animals; dangerous animals) as a misdemeanor on the first
offense.
(Ord. 2886, passed 11-21-2011; Ord. 3166, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 08-03-29 UNIFORM SUMMONS; FEE AND FINE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Citation. The state uniform citation shall be used by any animal
control officer in the enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   Fee and fine schedule. By resolution, the City Council shall establish
and from time to time amend the fines, fees and charges referred to in this
chapter or as are otherwise necessary to carry into effect the intent and
purposes of this chapter. The fine and fee schedule may establish enhanced
fines and fees for multiple violations by the same owner.
(Ord. 2886, passed 11-21-2011)
CHAPTER 5: MINORS’ CURFEW
Section
   
08-05-01   Purpose
   
08-05-03   Authority
   
08-05-05   Juvenile violation of curfew declared unlawful
   
08-05-07   Permitting juveniles to violate curfew
   
08-05-09   Violations
   
08-05-11   Severability
§ 08-05-01 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are as follows:
   (A)   To provide for and further the health, safety and welfare of the
public;
   (B)   To protect juveniles’ health and welfare, which include their care,
guidance and control;
   (C)   Parents, guardians and/or other persons having legal custody are
responsible for providing for the physical custody, welfare and control of a
child and to determine where and with whom the child shall live, and to provide
the child with care, education and discipline;
   (D)   To reduce instances of juvenile nocturnal crime; and
   (E)   A child who is unaccompanied by an adult having custodial rights or an
adult person designated by a person having custodial rights and who remains
upon public streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other
public grounds, places, buildings, places of amusement, eating places, vacant
lots or other locations, unsupervised by such adult, having unlawful authority
to be at such place during certain evening and early morning hours, is at
greater risk for injury, becoming a victim of crime, being involved in criminal
activity, being a danger to persons or property or otherwise being subject to
danger.
(Ord. 2152, passed 6-3-1996)
§ 08-05-03 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to authority conferred by Article 12, § 2
of the State Constitution and Idaho Code §§ 50-301, 50-302 and 50-701.
(Ord. 2152, passed 6-3-1996)
§ 08-05-05 JUVENILE VIOLATION OF CURFEW DECLARED UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any juvenile who is under the age of 16 years of
age to remain upon any street, highway, road, alley, park, playground or other
public places or buildings or places of amusement, eating establishments,
vacant lots and/or any other place without being accompanied by an adult having
custodial rights or an adult person designated by the adult having custodial
rights of said child between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the
following day, provided that the provisions of this section shall not apply in
the instances noted in division (D) below;
   (B)   It is unlawful for any juvenile, being an individual who is between 16
and 18 years of age, to remain upon any street, highway, road, alley, park,
playground or other public places or buildings or places of amusement, eating
establishments, vacant lots and/or any other place without being accompanied by
an adult having custodial rights or an adult person designated by the adult
having custodial rights of said child during the weekdays, specifically Sunday
through Thursday, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the
following day, provided that the provisions of this section shall not apply in
the instances noted in division (D) below;
   (C)   It is unlawful for any juvenile, being an individual who is between 16
and 18 years of age, to remain upon any street, highway, road, alley, park,
playground or other public places or buildings or places of amusement, eating
establishments, vacant lots and/or any other place without being accompanied by
an adult having custodial rights or an adult person designated by the adult
having custodial rights of said child during the weekends, specifically Friday
and Saturday, between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following
day, provided that the provisions of this section shall not apply in the
instances noted in division (D) below;
   (D)   Divisions (A) through (C) above shall not apply in the following
instances:
      (1)   When the child is upon an emergency errand directed by his or her
parent or guardian or other adult person having the lawful care and custody of
such juvenile;
      (2)   When the child is returning directly home from a school activity,
school entertainment, school or recreational activity or school dance;
      (3)   When the child is either going to or going from his or her place of
residence to lawful employment and/or is working at the child’s place of
employment;
      (4)   When the child is attending or traveling directly to or from an
activity involving the lawful exercise of First Amendment rights of free
speech, freedom of assembly or free exercise of religion; and
      (5)   When the child is in a motor vehicle with parental consent for
normal travel through the city.
(Ord. 2152, passed 6-3-1996)
§ 08-05-07 PERMITTING JUVENILES TO VIOLATE CURFEW.
   It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or other person having legal
custody of a child or any adult person designated by the person having legal
custody of a child under the age of 18 years to knowingly permit or allow said
child to be upon any public streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks,
playgrounds or other public grounds, places, buildings, places of amusement,
eating places, vacant lots or other locations in violation of the provisions of
§
08-05-05(A) through (C) without having designated an adult person or said
parent, guardian or other legal custodian to be with and supervise said
juvenile except in the circumstances set forth in §
08-05-05(D).
(Ord. 2152, passed 6-3-1996)
§ 08-05-09 VIOLATIONS.
   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is a misdemeanor and
punishable as a misdemeanor pursuant to Idaho Code § 18-113, as amended, with
the following qualifications.
   (A)   Upon the second conviction of a parent, guardian or legal custodian
for a violation of §
08-05-05, the parent, guardian or legal custodian shall be fined no less than
$100 in conjunction with any period of incarceration, term of probation or
other sanction or requirement as ordered by the court.
   (B)   Upon conviction of a third violation of §
08-05-05 by a parent, guardian or legal custodian, the convicted person shall
pay a fine of no less than $200 in conjunction with any period of
incarceration, term of probation or other sanction or requirement as ordered by
the court.
   (C)   Each conviction thereafter shall be considered a separate offense
punishable by no less than a $250 fine and no less than one day in the County
Jail in conjunction with any term of probation or other sanction or requirement
ordered by the court.
   (D)   Upon conviction, juveniles shall be punished in accordance with the
terms of the Juvenile Corrections Act, Idaho Code Title 20, Chapter 5, as
amended, and the other applicable rules and regulations pertaining to juvenile
offenders in the state.
(Ord. 2152, passed 6-3-1996)
§ 08-05-11 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any provision of this chapter be declared by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be unconstitutional, unlawful or invalid, such decision should
not affect the validity of this chapter in whole or in part thereof other than
the part so declared to be unconstitutional, unlawful or invalid.
(Ord. 2152, passed 6-3-1996)
CHAPTER 6: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY
Section
   
08-06-01   Short title, purpose and applicability
   
08-06-03   Definition
   
08-06-05   Failure to supervise a child
   
08-06-07   First offense warning
   
08-06-09   Second offense or more
   
08-06-11   Penalty
§ 08-06-01 SHORT TITLE, PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall be known as the Caldwell City Parental Responsibility
Ordinance, adopted for the purpose of providing proper administration and
enforcement of this title.
(Ord. 2196, passed 8-18-1997)
§ 08-06-03 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARENT. Any person who is the parent, lawful guardian or other person,
except a foster parent, lawfully charged with the care or custody of a child
under 16 years of age.
(Ord. 2196, passed 8-18-1997)
§ 08-06-05 FAILURE TO SUPERVISE A CHILD.
   Any person who is the parent, lawful guardian or other person, except a
foster parent, lawfully charged with the care or custody of a child under 18
years of age commits the offense of failure to supervise a child, if the child
commits any of the following acts:
   (A)   Commits an act to bring the child within the purview of the Juvenile
Corrections Act, Idaho Code Title 20, Chapter 5, or commits a crime for which
the child is required to be tried as an adult, or for which jurisdiction under
the Juvenile Corrections Act is subject to waiver pursuant to Idaho Code Title
20, Chapter 5;
   (B)   Fails to attend school or is not comparably instructed as provided in
Idaho Code § 33-202, unless said child is 16 years or older; or
   (C)   Violates a curfew law of this city.
(Ord. 2923, passed 4-15-2013)
§ 08-06-07 FIRST OFFENSE WARNING.
   When a child commits any of the acts set forth in §
08-06-05 for the first time, the parents, lawful guardian or other person
lawfully charged with the care and custody of the child may be advised by an
officer of the Police Department of the content of this chapter and the
penalties for violation of this chapter. This advisement shall be made by
serving a copy of this chapter upon the offender. Documentation of this service
shall be recorded by the City Police Department.
(Ord. 2196, passed 8-18-1997)
§ 08-06-09 SECOND OFFENSE OR MORE.
   (A)   When a child commits any of the acts set forth in §
08-06-05 for the second or more times since being warned, a citation or summons
may be issued to the parent, lawful guardian or other person lawfully charged
with the care or custody of that child unless the person with lawful custody is
a foster parent. The citation or summons shall set a date for appearance in the
Magistrate Division of the District Court.
   (B)   The person receiving a citation or summons under this chapter shall
not be subject to prosecution if the person demonstrates to the court upon
appearance any of the following:
      (1)   The person is the victim of the act, bringing the child within the
purview of the provisions of Idaho Code Title 20, Chapter 5;
      (2)   The person reported the act of the child to the law enforcement
agency, the Juvenile Court, the Department of Health and Welfare or other
appropriate authority; or
      (3)   The person took reasonable steps to control the conduct of the
child at the time the person is alleged to have failed to supervise the child.
(Ord. 2196, passed 8-18-1997)
§ 08-06-11 PENALTY.
   (A)   If the person pleads guilty or is found guilty of the offense of
failure to supervise a child, the person shall be declared guilty of a
misdemeanor and be subject to the following penalty:
      (1)   A fine and/or imprisonment, up to, but not exceeding, the maximum
penalties set forth in Idaho Code § 50-302, as amended. In lieu of the fine,
the court, with the consent of the person convicted or pleading guilty, may
order the person to complete parenting classes or undertake other treatment or
counseling as defined by the court. If the person completes the classes,
treatment or counseling to the satisfaction of the court, the person may be
discharged. If the person fails to complete the classes, treatment or
counseling to the satisfaction of the court, the court may then order payment
of a fine and/or imprisonment, up to, but not exceeding, the maximum penalties
set forth in Idaho Code § 50-302, as amended; and
      (2)   The court may order the person to pay or make restitution to any
victim who suffers an economic loss as a result of the juvenile’s conduct in
accordance with the standard and requirements of Idaho Code §§ 19-5304 and 19-
5305. Said restitution shall not exceed the amount of $2,500.
   (B)   Any person who violates an order of the court entered under this
chapter shall be subject to contempt proceedings in accordance with Idaho Code
Title 7, Chapter 6. The contempt proceedings and penalty for any contempt found
shall be in addition to and in substitution for any other penalties authorized
pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 2196, passed 8-18-1997; Ord. 2669, passed 2-20-2007)
CHAPTER 7: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES, POSSESSION IN PUBLIC PLACES
Section
   
08-07-01   Definitions
   
08-07-03   Possession of open container
   
08-07-05   Consumption of alcohol in public
   
08-07-07   Exceptions
   
08-07-09   Permit
§ 08-07-01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES. Any beverages containing alcohol, including beer and
wine as defined hereinafter by this chapter.
   BEER. Any beverages obtained by alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
decoction of barley, malt and/or other ingredients in drinkable water.
   CITY RECREATION CENTER. Any city municipal park.
   CONTAINER. Any receptacle capable of holding or storing alcoholic beverages.
   LIQUOR. Any beverage as defined in Idaho Code § 23-105(a) and (b).
   PUBLIC PARKING LOT. Any place maintained for the public outdoor parking of
motor vehicles.
   STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way or place
open to the public for motorized or nonmotorized vehicular travel, including
any sidewalk or way intended for pedestrian travel.
   WINE. Any beverage obtained through the fermentation of the natural sugar
content of fruits or other agricultural products containing sugar whether or
not other ingredients are added.
(Ord. 1999, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 08-07-03 POSSESSION OF OPEN CONTAINER.
   Except as otherwise permitted by state statute or in this chapter, it shall
be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession any open container
of any alcoholic beverage on or upon any street, in any public parking lot, in
or upon any public or private motor vehicle or upon any public or private
property open to the public.
(Ord. 1999, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 08-07-05 CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL IN PUBLIC.
   Except as otherwise permitted by state statute or in this chapter, it shall
be unlawful for any person to consume any alcoholic beverage on or upon any
street, in any public parking lot, in or upon any public or private motor
vehicle or upon any public or private property open to the public.
(Ord. 1999, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 08-07-07 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the possession or
consumption of any alcoholic beverage by a person who is at least 21 years of
age when such possession or consumption occurs:
   (A)   Pursuant to a special event permit under §
06-23-01, to possess and consume alcoholic beverages upon any street or upon
any public property within set boundaries. An application for such a permit
must be made to the City Clerk and be approved by the City Police Department
and must indicate in which zone or zones an event is to be held. Even when
approval is properly obtained, alcoholic beverages are only permitted provided
that the beverage is held in an opaque plastic container that is not labeled or
branded by an alcohol manufacturer or distributor and that such possession or
consumption does not occur on or in Indian Creek or on the green space of
Indian Creek Park but only on the walkways, sidewalks and bridge ways;
   (B)   Within the area defined on Exhibit A on file in the city, and depicted
on Exhibit B on file in the city, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m.
during any event approved through §
06-23-01, and hosted in one of the pre-approved indicated zones, provided that
such possession or consumption does not occur on or in Indian Creek or on the
green space of Indian Creek Park but only on the walkways, sidewalks and bridge
ways. Should there be a conflict between the boundary description (Exhibit A)
and the approximate boundary depiction (Exhibit B), the description in Exhibit
A shall control;
   (C)   Within the indoor premises of a private business when served free of
charge to customers or patrons of the business in conjunction with a specific
event then taking place inside the business premises;
   (D)   On a public sidewalk and the public right-of-way when such sidewalk or
right-of-way is contiguous to a permitted facility, but only after issuance of
and pursuant to the terms of a catering permit authorized by the City Council
under §
06-07-35;
   (E)   On a public sidewalk or other public right-of-way when such sidewalk
or right-of-way is being used for a permitted special event; provided, that the
consumption shall be for sample tasting only and the size of each sample of
beer or wine shall not exceed one and one-half ounces, shall be dispensed by a
licensed vintner, winery, brewery, distributor or retailer for the purpose of
promoting their products to the public or conducted as a tasting event, and
shall take place in a specific identified tasting area in accordance with state
law. Consumers shall remain in the tasting area until they have finished
consuming the sample; and
   (F)   At Wolfe Field, a city owned baseball park located at East Linden
Street and Griffith’s Parkway, Caldwell, ID 83605, however, this exception
shall apply only to beer and wine and shall not apply on the playing field area
or in the dugout areas.
(Ord. 3157, passed 7-2-2018; Ord. 3309, passed 12-7-2020; Ord. 3502, passed 4-
18-2023)
§ 08-07-09 PERMIT.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to make, promulgate, issue,
rescind and amend such rules and regulations as may be necessary to carry out
the purposes of this chapter; provided, that said rules and regulations are
approved by the City Council members.
   (B)   Any alcohol beverage catering permit issued pursuant to §
06-07-35 for the distribution or sale of beer and wine in the city parks and
recreation area, or downtown event zones, as designated in §
08-07-07(B), shall be issued only as city and state laws and regulations allow.
   (C)   Applicants to whom a special event permit or alcohol beverage catering
permit has been issued shall be required to comply with all rules and
regulations which appertain to the permit.
(Ord. 1999, passed 9-7-1993; Ord. 3157, passed 7-2-2018)
CHAPTER 9: BURGLARY AND FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
08-09-01   Purpose
   
08-09-02   Definitions
   
08-09-03   Silencing alarm systems
   
08-09-04   Alarm system maintenance
   
08-09-05   Maintaining a public nuisance alarm
   
08-09-06   Compliance
   
08-09-07   Prohibited alarm systems
   
08-09-08   Violations
   
08-09-09   Penalties
   
08-09-10   Enforcement
   
08-09-11   Severability
   
08-09-12   Disclaimer
§ 08-09-01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to reduce the number of false burglary,
robbery and fire alarms, thereby enhancing response time to other critical
calls for service. The purpose of this section is not to unduly burden citizens
or businesses who employ alarm systems, but rather to encourage those citizens
and businesses who elect to utilize alarm system services to employ training,
education and internal controls to reduce the incidence of false alarms, and to
further encourage the proper maintenance of such alarm systems, thereby
reducing waste of city resources and improving efficiency.
(Ord. 2424, passed 6-3-2002; Ord. 3678, passed 3-3-2025)
§ 08-09-02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When
consistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words in
the singular number include the plural number. The word SHALL is mandatory and
not merely directory.
   ALARM AGENT. A person employed by an alarm business whose duties include the
installation, maintenance, repair, service, response to or summoning another to
respond to an alarm system. When the alarm system is the sole responsibility of
the user and no contractual agreements with another company exist for the
maintenance of alarm equipment, the user shall be considered the ALARM AGENT
for the purposes of this chapter.
   ALARM OFFICER. The Chief of Police or Fire of the City of Caldwell, or
designee.
   ALARM SUBSCRIBER. Any person who purchases, leases, contracts for or
otherwise obtains an alarm system or contracts for the servicing or maintenance
of an alarm system.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any mechanical, electrical or other device which is designed
or used for the detection of a fire, trespass, burglary or robbery within a
building, structure or facility, or for alerting others to a hazard or to the
commission of an unlawful act within a building, structure or facility, or
which emits a sound or transmits a signal or message when activated and which
is designed to elicit a response from the Police Department. ALARM SYSTEMS
include, but are not limited to, direct dial telephone devices, audible alarms
and proprietor alarms. Devices which are not designed or used to register
alarms but are audible, visible or perceptible outside of the protected
building, structure or facility are not included with this definition. An ALARM
SYSTEM includes all the necessary equipment designed and installed for the
detection of a fire, trespass, burglary, robbery or other hazard in a single
building, structure or facility, or for alerting others to the commission of an
unlawful act within a building, structure or facility.
   AUDIBLE ALARM. A device designed for the detection of unauthorized entry or
presence on certain premises or indicates the presence of smoke or fire, which
generates an audible sound or signal on such premises when it is activated.
   AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICE. An alarm system which automatically broadcasts by
telephone, cellular, Wi-Fi or other wireless means, by direct connection or
otherwise, a prerecorded voice message or coded signal indicating the existence
of an emergency situation that the alarm system is designed to detect.
   EMERGENCY. Any condition for which the alarm was designed and installed and
which results in a response of police or fire personnel.
   FALSE ALARM. An alarm signal, message, transmittal or communication which is
activated from an alarm system and which is responded to by personnel of the
Police or Fire Department for which no emergency situation exists or existed as
determined by the responding police or fire personnel. FALSE ALARMS shall not
include alarms caused by natural occurrences such as hurricanes, tornadoes,
earthquakes or other extraordinary circumstances determined by the alarm
officer to be clearly beyond control of the alarm subscriber.
   FIRE DEPARTMENT. The City Fire Department.
   PENALTY STATUS. The status achieved by more than two false alarms within any
365-day period.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, association, corporation or
organization of any kind, or any governmental entity or political subdivision
thereof.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The City Police Department.
(Ord. 2424, passed 6-3-2002; Ord. 3678, passed 3-3-2025)
§ 08-09-03 SILENCING ALARM SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Upon notification by the alarm officer or his or her designee that an
alarm system is activated, the alarm subscriber, or the representative or alarm
agent of the alarm subscriber, shall immediately proceed to silence the alarm.
   (B)   An alarm system may be equipped with an automatic shutoff device,
which silences the alarm within 15 minutes after activation.
   (C)   The silencing of the alarm shall be completed by the alarm subscriber,
alarm agent or alarm company operator, or their designee, within 15 minutes
after notification of activation.
(Ord. 2424, passed 6-3-2002)
§ 08-09-04 ALARM SYSTEM MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Each alarm subscriber shall maintain each alarm system in good working
order and provide the necessary service to prevent malfunctions.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for an alarm subscriber to allow, permit or use
an alarm system which is not in good working order, or has fallen into
disrepair, or has malfunctioned.
(Ord. 2424, passed 6-3-2002)
§ 08-09-05 MAINTAINING A PUBLIC NUISANCE ALARM.
   (A)   Penalty. Any alarm system maintained, operated, used or attempted to
be used in violation of this section shall be deemed a public nuisance. In
addition to reimbursement or any other remedy available to the city, the city
may impose a penalty fee to the alarm subscriber for each and every false alarm
after the two within the calendar year as determined by following the schedule
below.
 
Third false alarm within the calendar year                   $25
Fourth false alarm within the calendar year                  $50
Fifth false alarm within the calendar year                   $75
Every successive false alarm over 5 within the calendar year $100
Notes to Table:
If Fire Department services are needed to respond to a false alarm that
requires a penalty, an additional penalty of $381.98 may be assessed in
addition to the penalty schedule above.
 
   (B)   Written notice. Where the alarm is deemed a public nuisance as
provided in this section, the alarm officer shall provide the alarm subscriber
written notice informing the alarm subscriber of the penalty status and the
finding of public nuisance.
   (C)   Abatement of nuisance. The city shall reserve all rights and remedies
available pursuant to Idaho Code § 50-1008.
   (D)   Review.
      (1)   The alarm subscriber may request the alarm officer to review and
reconsider the determination of public nuisance by submitting a written request
to the alarm officer within ten days upon receipt of the notice of penalty
status and nuisance. Failure to submit a written request in compliance with
this section is deemed a waiver of any and all rights to appeal.
      (2)   The alarm officer shall review the determination and send the alarm
subscriber his or her findings as to whether the alarm system is a public
nuisance in writing to the alarm subscriber by certified mailing within 15
days.
   (E)   Appeal. The alarm subscriber may request a hearing before the City
Council after filing a notice for hearing in writing to the City Clerk no later
than ten days upon mailing of the alarm officer’s finding of public nuisance.
Any finding by the City Council is appealable to the District Court of the
Third Judicial District, provided filing and fees are submitted in accordance
to state law.
(Ord. 2424, passed 6-3-2002; Ord. 3678, passed 3-3-2025)
§ 08-09-06 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   An alarm subscriber who has notice of his or her alarm system being
deemed a public nuisance shall be assessed a penalty fee in accordance to §
08-09-05(B).
   (B)   An alarm subscriber, who has notice of the assessed penalty or for any
amount due in reimbursement, shall remit within 15 days the amount due to the
city.
   (C)   Prior to additional permit approvals, all penalties and fees shall be
paid by the alarm subscriber.
(Ord. 2424, passed 6-3-2002; Ord. 3678, passed 3-3-2025)
§ 08-09-07 PROHIBITED ALARM SYSTEMS.
   No person shall use or operate an automatic dialing device or any device
programmed to initiate and deliver a message or signal to any telephone number
belonging to the city.
(Ord. 2424, passed 6-3-2002)
§ 08-09-08 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate or maintain any alarm system as herein
defined in this chapter for any purpose other than reporting such fires,
trespasses, burglaries, robberies or other crimes involving potential serious
bodily injury or death.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or use a public safety
alarm system for any purpose other than that for which it is installed, or for
any purpose other than detecting and reporting a fire, trespass, burglary,
robbery or other permitted purpose.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any alarm agent, alarm subscriber or other
person to install, operate or use any alarm system, as herein defined in this
chapter, which malfunctions due to improper installation or operation and that
results in the generation of false alarms.
(Ord. 2424, passed 6-3-2002; Ord. 3678, passed 3-3-2025)
§ 08-09-09 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided, any person violating any of the provisions
of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined or imprisoned in the County Jail in an amount not
exceeding that permitted by law.
   (B)   Each and every false alarm over three within the calendar year shall
be deemed a separate violation.
(Ord. 2424, passed 6-3-2002)
§ 08-09-10 ENFORCEMENT.
   The conviction or punishment of any person for violation of the provisions
of this chapter shall not release such person from paying any business taxes,
charges, fees, license fees or reimbursement for false alarms due and unpaid at
the time of such conviction, nor shall payment of any fee or reimbursement for
false alarms prevent the criminal prosecution for violation of any of the
provisions of this section. All remedies shall be cumulative and the use of one
or more remedies by the city shall not bar the use of any other remedy provided
by law.
(Ord. 2424, passed 6-3-2002)
§ 08-09-11 SEVERABILITY.
   If any clause, sentence, paragraph, section or any part of this chapter
shall be declared and adjudged to be invalid or unconstitutional by a court of
competent jurisdiction, such invalidity or unconstitutionality shall not
affect, invalidate or nullify the remainder of this chapter.
(Ord. 2424, passed 6-3-2002)
§ 08-09-12 DISCLAIMER.
   Nothing in this provision shall be construed as modifying or nullifying the
International Fire Code.
(Ord. 2424, passed 6-3-2002)
CHAPTER 11: FIREWORKS
[Reserved]
(Repealed by Ord. 2717, passed 12-17-2007)
Cross-reference:
   Fireworks provisions, see §
08-13-09
CHAPTER 13: LIFE SAFETY AND FIRE PREVENTION CODE
Section
   
08-13-01   Adoption of Fire Code
   
08-13-03   Establishment and duties of Division of Fire Prevention
   
08-13-05   Definitions
   
08-13-07   Establishment of geographical limits
   
08-13-09   Amendments to Fire Code
   
08-13-11   Appeals
   
08-13-13   Repealed
   
08-13-15   Fire Department fees
   
08-13-17   New materials, processes or occupancies which may require permits
   
08-13-19   Validity
§ 08-13-01 ADOPTION OF FIRE CODE.
   The International Fire Code (IFC) as currently adopted by the State Fire
Marshal, under the authority set forth in Idaho Code Title 41, Chapter 2,
including any amendments or revisions thereto (IDAPA 18.01.50), is the
applicable Fire Code for the city.
(Ord. 2951, passed 11-18-2013; Ord. 3305, passed 12-21-2020)
§ 08-13-03 ESTABLISHMENT AND DUTIES OF DIVISION OF FIRE PREVENTION.
   (A)   The International Fire Code shall be enforced by the Division of Fire
Prevention in the Fire Department of the city which is hereby established and
which shall be operated under the supervision of the Chief of the Fire
Department.
   (B)   The Fire Marshal in charge of the Division of Fire Prevention shall be
appointed by the Fire Chief of the City Fire Department on the basis of
examination to determine his or her qualifications, and appointment made after
examination shall be for an indefinite term with removal only for cause.
   (C)   The Chief of the Fire Department may detail such members of the Fire
Department as inspectors or fire prevention officers as shall from time to time
be necessary in conformance with the provisions of the union contract. The
Chief of the Fire Department shall recommend to the Mayor of the city the
employment of fire prevention officers or similar technical personnel who, when
such authorization is made, shall be selected through an examination to
determine their fitness for the position. The examination shall be open to
members and nonmembers of the Fire Department, and appointments made after
examination shall be for an indefinite term with removal only for cause.
(Ord. 1844, passed 3-5-1990; Ord. 2453, passed 12-16-2002; Ord. 2678, passed 4-
16-2007)
§ 08-13-05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Whenever the word JURISDICTION is used in the International Fire Code,
it is the City of Caldwell, County of Canyon, State of Idaho.
   (B)   Whenever the words CODE OFFICIAL or FIRE CODE OFFICIAL are used they
shall be held to mean the FIRE MARSHAL or the FIRE CHIEF.
(Ord. 2717, passed 12-17-2007)
§ 08-13-07 ESTABLISHMENT OF GEOGRAPHICAL LIMITS.
   The geographic limits referred to in §§ 5704.2.9.6.1, 5706.2.4.4, 5806.2 and
6104.2 of the 2012 International Fire Code, or to similar sections of later
adopted editions of the International Fire Code related to the storage of Class
I and Class II liquids, of flammable cryogenic fluids and of liquefied
petroleum gas, would, upon review and analysis by the Fire Code Official,
permit such storage in areas zoned M-1, M-2, I-P and C-3 Zones.
(Ord. 2951, passed 11-18-2013; Ord. 3305, passed 12-21-2020)
§ 08-13-09 AMENDMENTS TO FIRE CODE.
   The following are amendments to the International Fire Code, as adopted by
the state, which amendments are permitted by state law inasmuch as each such
amendment meets or exceeds the minimum standards required by the state under
Idaho Code § 41-253(1) and IDAPA 18.01.50.
   (A)   Amendment one. Pursuant to IDAPA 18.01.50.041, § 5608.2 of the
International Fire Code, entitled “Permit Application,” was deleted. The
following shall govern the use, storage, possession and display of fireworks in
the city.
      (1)   Title and purpose. The amendment provided in this division (A),
inclusive, may be referred to in whole as the “city’s fireworks ordinance,” and
is intended to govern the use, storage, possession and display of fireworks in
the city. Should any provision hereof, or other law or standard be found to be
in conflict with one another, the law or standard that is more restrictive
shall be used and will apply.
      (2)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         CARETAKER UNIT. A recreational vehicle or motor vehicle equipped as
living quarters parked at the site of an operation for the purpose of providing
security for an operation during non-business hours. This definition shall not
include camping tents.
         DANGEROUS FIREWORKS. All fireworks other than non-aerial common
fireworks which launch into the air and/or explode, including, but not limited
to: firecrackers, bottle rockets, cherry bombs, M-80s, Roman candles, sky
rockets, mortar fired shells, jumping jacks and the like.
         FIREWORKS. Any combustible or explosive composition, or any substance
or combination of substances, or article prepared for the purpose of producing
a visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration or
detonation, including items classified as common or special fireworks by the
United States Bureau of Explosives or contained in the regulations of the USDOT
and designated as United Nations (UN) 0335 1.3G or UN 0336 1.4G.
         NON-AERIAL COMMON FIREWORKS. Also known as SAFE AND SANE FIREWORKS,
any fireworks such as ground spinners, fountains, sparklers, smoke devices or
snakes designed to remain on or near the ground and not to travel outside a 15-
foot diameter circle or emit sparks or other burning material which lands
outside a 20-foot diameter circle or above a height of 20 feet.
         NOVELTY FIREWORKS. Any automotive safety flares, toy guns, toy
cannons, caps or other items designed for use with toy guns or toy cannons,
party poppers, pop-its or other devices which contain twenty-five hundredths of
a grain or less of explosive substance.
         OPERATION. A business, whether formally or informally organized, in
which the operator sells fireworks at retail.
         OPERATOR. Any person, sole proprietor, partnership or corporation
selling fireworks at retail. This definition shall include such operator’s
agents, employees, partners and officers.
         PERMITTEE. The person to whom a non-aerial common fireworks permit or
public fireworks display permit is issued pursuant to the city’s fireworks
ordinance.
         PUBLIC FIREWORKS DISPLAY. The discharging of fireworks for the purpose
of producing a visible or audible effect before an audience at a planned
function or event. This definition shall not include the discharging of novelty
fireworks.
         RETAIL. Merchandise sold to a consumer of the product (not for resale)
consisting of any quantity from a single unit (or item) up to and beyond a
gross lot of that item or combinations of items in various quantities.
         SHORT-TERM STORAGE CONTAINER.
            1.   Any container that is used for the storage of non-aerial
common fireworks when:
               a.   The non-aerial common fireworks stored therein are
possessed under the authority of a non-aerial common fireworks permit and:
                  i.   The operation is closed; and/or
                  ii.   Such fireworks are not actively being sold or offered
for sale.
               b.   The non-aerial common fireworks stored therein are
possessed under the authority of a public fireworks display permit and such
fireworks are not actively being used for any public fireworks display.
            2.   Except as otherwise provided in the city’s fireworks
ordinance, for purposes of this definition, SHORT-TERM STORAGE FACILITIES may
include, but are not limited to, the following, where fireworks are stored
therein: any stand, tent, truck, trailer or other vehicle; a fully enclosed
inter-modal container; or a shed, detached garage, barn, outbuilding or other
permanent structure.
         SUMMER SALES PERIOD. From 11:59 p.m. June 22 to 12:01 a.m. July 5.
         TEMPORARY FIREWORKS STAND. A temporary stand or tent from which non-
common aerial fireworks are sold and/or offered for sale. A TEMPORARY FIREWORKS
STAND may serve as a short-term storage container pursuant to the provisions of
the city’s fireworks ordinance.
         WHOLESALE. As defined in Idaho Code § 39-2602, the sale of fireworks
to a retailer or wholesaler. However, WHOLESALE also means “a large quantity”
(“Oxford American Dictionary”) of a product. For the purpose of enforcing the
city’s fireworks ordinance, A LARGE QUANTITY is hereby determined to consist of
“a gross lot” consisting of 144 pieces or more. (Example: 144 or more retail
packages of firecrackers, 144 or more retail packages of bottle rockets, 144 or
more retail packages of sky rockets and the like.)
         WINTER SALES PERIOD. From 11:59 p.m. December 25 to 12:01 a.m. January
1.
      (3)   Permit for retail sales of non-aerial common fireworks.
         (a)   No person without having a valid non-aerial common fireworks
permit issued pursuant to the city’s fireworks ordinance shall offer for sale;
possess or store for the purpose of sale; sell; cause to be offered for sale;
cause to be possessed or stored for the purpose of sale; or cause to be sold
non-aerial common fireworks in any manner or for any use or purpose.
         (b)   Application for a non-aerial common fireworks permit shall be
made to the City Clerk in such form and manner as the City Clerk may prescribe.
Such application shall include, but shall not necessarily be limited to, the
following information:
            1.   Applicant’s and on-site managers’ name, age, date of birth and
Social Security number (a photocopy of driver’s license preferred);
            2.   If operation is a partnership, corporation or limited
liability company, the names and addresses of, as applicable:
               a.   All partners;
               b.   All corporation and corporate officers; or
               c.   The company and its members.
            3.   Physical and mailing addresses of applicant’s home and
principal place of business and fixed and/or mobile telephone numbers;
            4.   Name and address and fixed and/or mobile telephone numbers of
applicant’s registered agent for service of process;
            5.   State sales tax seller’s permit number, if applicable;
            6.   Physical address and description of each and every location at
which fireworks are to be stored;
            7.   Dates during which non-aerial common fireworks are to be
stored;
            8.   Physical address and description of any and all locations at
which non-aerial common fireworks are to be sold and/or offered for sale;
            9.   Dates during which non-aerial common fireworks are to be sold
and/or offered for sale;
            10.   A “to scale” site plan, which shall include a description of:
               a.   Location, type and dimensions of any temporary fireworks
stand, caretaker unit, power generator(s) and/or short-term storage container
to be located at the sales site;
               b.   The distance (in feet) from the temporary fireworks stands
and/or short-term storage containers, setbacks from property lines, to any fuel
dispensing equipment, the nearest fire hydrant;
               c.   All roadways and parking areas;
               d.   Vision sight triangle (for driveway exits if located on a
corner); and
               e.   Waste control plan (receptacles or dumpsters).
            11.   Such other information as the City Clerk or Fire Code
Official may require.
         (c)   1.   The City Clerk shall direct the necessary investigations
into the application in order to determine:
               a.   Whether the proposed operations, activities and/or uses are
in compliance with the city’s fireworks ordinance and/or all other applicable
provisions of this city code and/or state and/or federal law;
               b.   Whether use of such permit by applicant or applicant’s
agent, employee, partner or officer will likely endanger the health, safety
and/or welfare of persons or property; and
               c.   Whether issuance of such permit will serve the best
interest of the city.
            2.   The City Clerk shall notify the Planning Department, Building
Department, Fire Department and the Police Department, which Departments shall,
with the City Clerk, cause an investigation to be made of each application and
applicant, and shall recommend to the City Clerk whether he or she should grant
or deny the non-aerial common fireworks permit.
         (d)   Applications for non-aerial common fireworks permits authorizing
the permitted to sell non-aerial common fireworks during the summer sales
period shall be filed with the City Clerk on or before May 15, or the next
business day if such date falls on a non-business day, preceding the summer
sales period in which non-aerial common fireworks are to be sold. Applications
for non-aerial common fireworks permits authorizing the permitted to sell non-
aerial common fireworks during the winter sales period shall be filed with the
City Clerk on or before November 15, or the next business day if such date
falls on a non-business day, preceding the winter sales period in which non-
aerial common fireworks are to be sold.
         (e)   So long as the application is filed by the applicable May 15 or
November 15 deadline, the City Clerk shall notify the applicant if deficiencies
in the application exist, and the applicant shall have five business days from
the date of the notice to correct any deficiencies. Notwithstanding any such
extension or extensions, any application pending required action by applicant
more than 30 days after the respective May 15 or November 15 deadline shall be
denied.
         (f)   A separate application shall be filed for each and every
operation and location at which non-aerial common fireworks are to be sold and/
or offered for sale.
         (g)   A separate application shall be filed for each and every summer
or winter sales period during which non-aerial common fireworks are to be sold.
         (h)   1.   The City Clerk shall deny an application for a non-aerial
common fireworks permit:
               a.   Where the applicant, or applicant’s agent, employee,
partner or officer, has been convicted in the preceding ten years of any crime
involving fraud, larceny, arson or illegal possession or sale of fireworks,
including, but not limited to, a violation of Idaho Code Title 39, Chapter 26;
               b.   Where the applicant, or applicant’s agent, employee,
partner or officer, has been convicted in the preceding one year of a violation
of any zoning, building, fire or health and safety codes of the city;
               c.   Where the city has revoked or suspended from applicant, or
applicant’s agent, employee, partner or officer a non-aerial common fireworks
permit issued pursuant to the city’s fireworks ordinance, in the preceding one
year; and
               d.   Where the Planning and Zoning Department, Building
Department, Fire Department or Police Department report that:
                  i.   The proposed operations, activities and/or uses are not
in compliance with the city’s fireworks ordinance and/or any other applicable
provisions of this city code and/or state and/or federal law;
                  ii.   Use of such permit by applicant or applicant’s agent,
employee, partner or officer will constitute an unreasonable hazard to persons
or property; or
                  iii.   Issuance of such permit would not serve the best
interest of the city.
            2.   Any denial of an application for a non-aerial common fireworks
permit shall be made in writing and shall describe the reason(s) for such
denial. Such written denial shall be deemed effective immediately upon personal
service to the permittee or mailing by U.S. Postal Service to the applicant’s
mailing address as set forth in the application. The applicant may request a
hearing on such denial before the City Council. Such hearing shall be scheduled
as practicable at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the City Council. At
such hearing, the City Clerk shall present findings and information as to the
basis of the denial. The City Council shall have the authority to affirm the
denial or order the City Clerk to grant the permit. The action of the City
Council shall be final.
         (i)   Each non-aerial common fireworks permit application shall be
accompanied by an application fee as established on the most current city fee
schedule for each operation for which a permit is sought.
         (j)   Each non-aerial common fireworks permit application shall be
accompanied by a certificate of insurance for public liability and property
casualty insurance providing coverage with policy limits equal to or greater
than the minimum designated by Council resolution. The policy of insurance
shall be underwritten through or by a qualified and duly licensed insurance
company or companies doing or authorized to do insurance business in the state.
         (k)   A non-aerial common fireworks permit issued pursuant to the
city’s fireworks ordinance shall be valid only for the period designated and
for the specific location designated in the permit, and shall be
nontransferable.
         (l)   1.   The City Clerk, the Fire Chief or a designee of either may
revoke a non-aerial common fireworks permit issued pursuant to the city’s
fireworks ordinance where:
               a.   The operator conducts a use, condition and/or activity not
allowed under the terms of the permit;
               b.   The operator violates conditions and/or limitations set
forth in the permit, or allows others to do same proximal to their operation;
               c.   The application for the permit contains any material false
statements or misrepresentations;
               d.   The permit is used by a different operator or operation
than to whom it was issued;
               e.   The permit was issued in error or in violation of any
ordinance or law;
               f.   The permittee fails to comply with any order or notice duly
served in accordance with the provisions of the city’s fireworks ordinance or
other applicable law; and
               g.   The permittee fails to comply with any provision of federal
law, the State Fireworks Act (Idaho Code Title 39, Chapter 26) and/or this city
code, including, but not limited to, the city’s fireworks ordinance.
            2.   Any revocation or suspension of a non-aerial common fireworks
permit shall be made in writing and shall describe the reason(s) for such
action. Such written notification shall be deemed effective immediately upon
personal service to the permittee or mailing by U.S. Postal Service to the
permittee’s mailing address as set forth in the application. The permittee may
request a hearing on such action before the City Council. Such hearing shall be
scheduled as practicable at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the City
Council. At such hearing, the City Clerk, the Fire Chief or the designee
thereof who revoked the permit shall present findings and information as to the
basis of the action. The City Council shall have the authority to affirm the
revocation or suspension and may order the City Clerk to reinstate the permit.
The action of the City Council shall be final.
      (4)   Retail sales of non-aerial common fireworks. The following
provisions shall apply to each and every operation. The sale of non-aerial
common fireworks in violation of the city’s fireworks ordinance or in any
manner or by any means not in accordance with the provisions of the city’s
fireworks ordinance shall be unlawful.
         (a)   No person without having a valid non-aerial common fireworks
permit issued pursuant to the city’s fireworks ordinance shall offer for sale;
possess for the purpose of sale; sell; cause to be offered for sale; cause to
be possessed for the purpose of sale; or cause to be sold non-aerial common
fireworks in any manner or for any use or purpose.
         (b)   Only one temporary fireworks stand shall be allowed per site.
         (c)   No temporary fireworks stand used during the summer sales period
shall be erected before June 15. The premises on which such temporary fireworks
stand is erected shall be cleared of any and all temporary fireworks stands and
debris not later than 12:00 p.m. on July 12. No temporary fireworks stand used
during the winter sales period shall be erected before December 15. The
premises on which such temporary fireworks stand is erected shall be cleared of
any and all temporary fireworks stands and debris not later than 12:00 p.m. on
January 8.
         (d)   One caretaker unit may be allowed per sales site and shall be
used only for the purpose of security of an operation. Such caretaker unit
shall be located a minimum of 25 feet from any temporary fireworks stand or
short-term storage container. Caretaker units used during the summer sales
period shall not be placed at the sales site before June 15 and shall not
remain at the site after 12:00 p.m. on July 12. Caretaker units used during the
winter sales period shall not be placed at the sales site before December 15
and shall not remain at the site after 12:00 p.m. on January 8.
         (e)   The sale of fireworks shall be prohibited on any residentially
zoned property or within 300 feet of any International Building Code (IBC)
group A, E, I or R occupancies, or within 100 feet of any flammable liquid
dispensing device or installation.
         (f)   Non-aerial common fireworks and/or related merchandise shall not
be sold or offered for sale, structures or signs shall not be erected and/or
business shall not be conducted within the public right-of-way, unless
otherwise authorized by the appropriate transportation or governmental
authority. If a private sidewalk or pedestrian way is occupied by a structure,
stand, tent or sign associated with an operation, a minimum width of four feet
shall remain unobstructed along the entire width of such private sidewalk or
pedestrian way. If such private sidewalk or pedestrian way is narrower than
four feet wide, at least one-half of the width thereof shall remain
unobstructed along the entire width of such private sidewalk or pedestrian way.
         (g)   No entrance and/or exit drive providing ingress or egress to an
operation shall cause a traffic hazard or nuisance. Operators shall comply with
all rules and standards for access as established by the appropriate
transportation or governmental authority.
         (h)   No operation shall sell non-aerial common fireworks and/or offer
non-common aerial fireworks for sale at a location lacking adequate off-street
parking upon asphalt or other dustless material (a maintained all-weather
surface). Inadequate parking shall include, but shall not be limited to, such
situation where parking by patrons of the operation displaces off-street
parking spaces or loading areas serving the site’s permanent and/or primary use
(s).
         (i)   Compressors, fans, pumps, generators and/or other motorized
equipment utilized by an operation shall be located and/or shielded in a manner
that prevents unreasonable noise.
         (j)   No person shall construct, or cause to be constructed, any
permanent structure for the sale and/or offering for sale of non-aerial common
fireworks. No operator may sell or offer for sale non-aerial common fireworks
from or in a permanent structure or from a motor vehicle.
         (k)   No person shall have an open flame or use an exposed-element
heating device in any temporary fireworks stand.
         (l)   During business hours, each and every operation shall be staffed
by at least one person who is 21 years of age or older.
         (m)   No person under 16 years of age shall be allowed in the non-
public areas of a temporary fireworks stand. Operators shall maintain a list of
all persons who will be working in the stand which shall include their full
name, sex, age and date of birth. Persons working in stands shall have a photo
identification card (driver’s license, school ID card and the like) in their
possession at all times they are working.
         (n)   No operator shall sell fireworks to any person who is under the
age of 16 years unless such person is accompanied by a parent or legal
guardian. The burden of verifying the age of purchasers of fireworks shall be
borne by the operator. The verification of age by presentation of a recognized
identification card (driver’s license) is highly recommended.
         (o)   Fireworks offered for retail sale shall not be readily
accessible to the public.
         (p)   As to each and every temporary fireworks stand, operators shall
comply with, and, as applicable, shall ensure their patrons’ and the public’s
compliance with, each and all of the following provisions regarding temporary
fireworks stands.
            1.   Any and all temporary fireworks stands shall comply with all
applicable provisions of federal, state and local law and of this city code,
including, but not limited to, planning and zoning regulations, the Building
Code, the Fire Code and the Electrical Code. The operator shall obtain any and
all required permits from federal, state, local and/or city agencies.
            2.   Prior to erecting any temporary fireworks stand and throughout
the applicable sales period, the ground underlying such temporary fireworks
stand and all ground within a 30-foot perimeter thereof shall be cleared and
maintained clear of any and all weeds, combustible vegetation or material and/
or debris. No operator shall permit the accumulation of rubbish or trash in or
around any temporary fireworks stand. No operator shall permit a fire nuisance
or hazard to exist in or around any temporary fireworks stand.
            3.   No temporary fireworks stand shall have a floor area in excess
of 600 square feet.
            4.   Any and all temporary fireworks stands shall have exit doors
at least 30 inches wide at both ends of the temporary fireworks stand and one
additional door for each 32 feet of rear wall in excess of 32 feet. All doors
shall open outward from the temporary fireworks stand and all doorways shall be
kept clear and operational at all times. No operator shall cause or allow any
exit from a temporary fireworks stand to be obstructed, non-opening,
inaccessible or malfunctioning.
            5.   Any and all temporary fireworks stands shall be located at
least 25 feet from any other building, property line or structure.
            6.   Any and all temporary fireworks stands shall be located at
least 25 feet from any generator or other internal combustion power sources
and/or their fuels.
            7.   Any and all temporary fireworks stands shall be located at
least 100 feet from any flammable liquid dispensing device or installation.
            8.   Any and all temporary fireworks stands shall contain a minimum
of one type 2A10BC rated fire extinguisher, and one 2A water type fire
extinguisher. Such extinguishers shall, at all times: be in good working order,
have a current inspection tag (serviced within the past year), and be easily
accessible for use in case of fire in the temporary fireworks stand or the
immediate proximity thereof.
            9.   Any and all temporary fireworks stands shall be emptied of all
fireworks when not open for business. This provision shall not apply where the
operation is not open for business and the temporary fireworks stand is used as
a short-term storage facility, in which case all provisions of the city’s
fireworks ordinance governing short-term storage facilities shall apply.
            10.   No person shall sleep or be under the influence of any
intoxicants including alcohol or drugs at any time in any temporary fireworks
stand.
            11.   Vehicles shall not be parked within 25 feet of the exterior
of any temporary fireworks stand.
            12.   No person shall smoke inside any temporary fireworks stand or
within 50 feet of any temporary fireworks stand.
            13.   At least one durable sign with red, block lettering on a
white background and reading “Fireworks - No Smoking Within 50 Feet” in letters
at least four inches high shall be posted on each and every interior and
exterior wall or side of any and all temporary fireworks stands. Such signs
shall be maintained in a legible condition at all times.
            14.   No operator shall allow fireworks to be discharged in or
within 300 feet of any temporary fireworks stand. At least one durable sign
with red, block lettering on a white background and reading “No Fireworks to Be
Discharged Within 300 Feet” in letters at least four inches high shall be
posted on each and every exterior wall or side of any and all temporary
fireworks stands. Such signs shall be maintained in a legible condition at all
times.
            15.   Waste receptacles in any temporary fireworks stand shall be
non-combustible (metal) and shall have a securely-fitting lid.
            16.   All permits and notices are required to be posted in or on
the stand visible to the public at all times.
            17.   All temporary fireworks stands shall be located not more than
500 feet or less than 100 feet of a fire hydrant capable of flowing at least
1,000 gallons per minute.
            18.   All warning signs and notices shall also be posted in Spanish
language.
      (5)   Storage of non-aerial common fireworks. The following provisions
shall apply to each and every operation. The storage of non-aerial common
fireworks in violation of this section or in any manner or by any means not in
accordance with the provisions of this section shall be unlawful.
         (a)   No person without having a valid non-aerial common fireworks
permit issued pursuant to the city’s fireworks ordinance shall store for the
purpose of sale or cause to be stored for the purpose of sale non-aerial common
fireworks in any manner or for any use or purpose.
         (b)   Only one short-term storage container in addition to the
temporary fireworks stand shall be allowed per site.
         (c)   Short-term storage containers used during the summer sales
period shall not be placed at the sales site before June 15 and shall not
remain at the site after 12:00 p.m. on July 12. Short-term storage containers
used during the winter sales period shall not be placed at the sales site
before December 15 and shall not remain at the site after 12:00 p.m. on January
8.
         (d)   The storage of fireworks shall be prohibited on any
residentially zoned property or within 300 feet of any International Building
Code (IBC) group A, E, I or R occupancies.
         (e)   Short-term storage containers shall not be placed or erected
within the public right-of-way, unless otherwise authorized by the appropriate
transportation or governmental authority. If a private sidewalk or pedestrian
way is occupied by a short-term storage container, a minimum width of four feet
shall remain unobstructed along the entire width of such private sidewalk or
pedestrian way. If such private sidewalk or pedestrian way is narrower than
four feet wide, at least one-half of the width thereof shall remain
unobstructed along the entire width of such private sidewalk or pedestrian way.
         (f)   No person shall construct, or cause to be constructed, any
permanent structure for the storage of non-aerial common fireworks.
         (g)   Stored fireworks shall be secured in a manner that denies any
and all access to such fireworks by persons other than the operator.
         (h)   No operator shall cause or allow any exit from a short-term
storage container to be obstructed, inaccessible or malfunctioning.
         (i)   As to each and every short-term storage container, operators
shall comply with, and, as applicable, shall ensure their patrons’ and the
public’s compliance with, each and all of the following provisions regarding
short-term storage containers.
            1.   Any and all short-term storage containers shall comply with
all applicable provisions of federal, state and local law and of this city
code, including, but not limited to, community development standards, the
International Building Code, the International Fire Code and the National
Electrical Code. The operator shall obtain any and all required permits from
federal, state, local and/or city agencies.
            2.   Non-aerial common fireworks may be stored in a short-term
storage container no longer than 60 days prior to, and 15 days after, the dates
during which the sale of non-aerial common fireworks is allowed under a non-
aerial common fireworks permit. The storage of fireworks by any person at any
other time or for a longer duration shall be unlawful.
            3.   Prior to erecting, placing and/or utilizing any short-term
storage container, and throughout the applicable sales period, the ground
underlying such short-term storage container and all ground within a 30-foot
perimeter thereof shall be cleared and maintained clear (to bare earth) of any
and all weeds, combustible vegetation or material and/or debris.
            4.   No short-term storage container shall have a floor area in
excess of 320 square feet.
            5.   Any and all short-term storage containers shall be located at
least 25 feet from any other building or structure, including, but not limited
to, any temporary fireworks stand and all property lines.
            6.   Any and all short-term storage containers shall be located at
least 25 feet from any generator or other internal combustion power sources
and/or their fuels.
            7.   Any and all short-term storage containers shall be located at
least 100 feet from any flammable liquid dispensing device or installation.
            8.   Any and all short-term storage containers shall contain a
minimum of one pressurized water fire extinguisher with a minimum rating of 2A,
which shall be located in an accessible and visible location within 48 inches
of the access door. If such container has more than one access door, a fire
extinguisher shall be located in an accessible and visible location within 48
inches of each and every access door.
            9.   No person shall sleep at any time in any short-term storage
container.
            10.   Vehicles shall not be driven or parked within 25 feet of the
exterior of any short-term storage container, except to load or unload
fireworks. Any vehicles engaged in loading or unloading shall have their motors
turned off during either of those processes and shall not block exits, reduce
door swing or block escape routes from the short-term storage container.
            11.   No person shall smoke inside or within 50 feet of any short-
term storage container.
            12.   At least one durable sign with red, block lettering on a
white background and reading “Fireworks - No Smoking Within 50 Feet” in letters
at least four inches high shall be posted on each and every interior wall and
each and every exterior wall or side of any and all short-term storage
containers. Such signs shall be maintained in a legible condition at all times
and must not be blocked or obstructed by products or materials.
            13.   No operator shall allow fireworks to be discharged in or
within 300 feet of any short-term storage container. At least one durable sign
with red, block lettering on a white background and reading “No Fireworks to Be
Discharged Within 300 Feet” in letters at least four inches high shall be
posted on each and every exterior wall or side of any and all short-term
storage containers. Such signs shall be maintained in a legible condition at
all times.
            14.   No operator shall permit a fire nuisance or hazard to exist
in or around any short-term storage container.
            15.   No operator shall permit the accumulation of rubbish or trash
inside or around any short-term storage container.
            16.   Waste receptacles are prohibited in any and all short-term
storage containers, unless such receptacle is non-combustible (metal) and has a
securely-fitting lid.
            17.   All short-term storage containers shall be located within 300
feet of a fire hydrant capable of flowing at least 1,000 gallons per minute.
            18.   All short-term storage containers shall be secured with a
heavy-duty lock at all access points when no supervised loading or unloading is
in progress.
         (j)   Where a temporary fireworks stand is used as a short-term
storage facility, such temporary fireworks stand:
            1.   Shall comply with all applicable provisions of this section in
addition to any and all other applicable provisions of the city’s fireworks
ordinance;
            2.   Where such temporary fireworks stand is constructed with hard
sides, shall be secured with a heavy-duty lock and key at all access points;
and
            3.   Where such temporary fireworks stand is constructed with
canvas or other soft material sides, the stand shall be constantly watched by a
competent adult person who shall remain awake, alert and on-site at all times
and who shall prevent any and all access to fireworks or other merchandise
stored therein. A dog or other animal is not a person for purposes of this
section.
         (k)   Where a truck, trailer or similar vehicle is used as a short-
term storage container, such truck, trailer or vehicle:
            1.   Shall comply with all applicable provisions of this title in
addition to any and all other applicable provisions of the International Fire
Code (IFC);
            2.   Shall be effectively “chocked” to prevent rolling and secured
by a working lock or locks at all times and at all access points, except during
supervised loading and/or unloading of merchandise;
            3.   Be properly marked and/or placarded in accordance with USDOT
requirements (UN hazardous materials identification signs); and
            4.   May not be used for both fireworks storage and debris or waste
disposal simultaneously.
         (l)   Where a permanent building or structure is used as a short-term
storage container, such structure:
            1.   Shall comply with all applicable provisions of the IFC, IBC
and the city’s fireworks ordinance;
            2.   Shall be effectively secured by a working lock or locks at all
times and at all access points, except during active loading and/or unloading;
            3.   Shall contain no open flames;
            4.   Shall have no heating source;
            5.   Shall have no lighting source, except that hand-held, battery-
operated flashlights may be used therein; and
            6.   Shall be separated by a minimum of 25 feet from any other
structure that:
               a.   Is used as a residence or business;
               b.   Is used for human habitation;
               c.   Contains open flames;
               d.   Contains a heating source; and/or
               e.   Contains a lighting source.
      (6)   General prohibitions.
         (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
            1.   Alter any fireworks, except where such alteration complies
with:
               a.   A public fireworks display permit validly issued pursuant
to the city’s fireworks ordinance;
               b.   All provisions of the city’s fireworks ordinance; and
               c.   All other applicable provisions of federal, state and local
law.
            2.   Throw or discharge any fireworks from, into or at a vehicle or
structure;
            3.   Throw or discharge any fireworks at any person or animal;
            4.   Sell, store, possess, discharge or use any fireworks in
violation of the city’s fireworks ordinance, the IFC or any other law;
            5.   Throw or discharge any fireworks in or near any dry grass or
other vegetative fuels or use fireworks in any area where there exists a severe
fire threat based on vegetative or other conditions as determined by the Fire
Chief or his or her designee, provided that notice of such areas of severe fire
threat is given in advance;
            6.   Discharge fireworks within 300 feet of any temporary fireworks
stand or short-term storage container;
            7.   Smoke within 50 feet of any temporary fireworks stand or
short-term storage container;
            8.   Ignite a flame within 50 feet of any temporary fireworks stand
or short-term storage container;
            9.   Operate a motor vehicle within 25 feet of any temporary
fireworks stand or short-term storage container; or
            10.   Obstruct or cause to be obstructed, inoperable, inaccessible
or malfunctioning any exit from a temporary fireworks stand or short-term
storage container.
         (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any dangerous
fireworks at any time, unless otherwise permitted in the city’s fireworks
ordinance. It shall be unlawful for any person, not otherwise licensed to
import at wholesale, to possess any dangerous fireworks in a quantity less than
a wholesale amount.
         (c)   It shall be unlawful for anyone under the age of 16 years to
purchase, possess or discharge any non-common aerial fireworks, except in the
presence of a parent or legal guardian.
      (7)   Liability of parents or guardians. The parent, guardian or other
person having custody or control of a minor shall be liable for any and all
damages caused by the discharge or use of fireworks by the minor, including any
chargeable fire suppression costs.
      (8)   Permit for public fireworks display.
         (a)   No person without having a valid City Fire Department issued
public fireworks display permit issued pursuant to the city’s fireworks
ordinance shall possess or store for the purpose of public fireworks display,
or cause to be possessed or stored for the purpose of public fireworks display,
dangerous fireworks in any manner or for any use or purpose.
         (b)   Application for a public fireworks display permit shall be made
to the City Clerk in such form and manner as the City Clerk may prescribe. Such
application shall include, but shall not necessarily be limited to, the
following information:
            1.   Applicant’s full and legal name, age, date of birth and Social
Security number (photocopy of driver’s license preferred);
            2.   If the public fireworks display for which the permit is sought
is to be performed by a partnership, corporation or limited liability company,
the names and addresses of, as applicable:
               a.   All partners;
               b.   All corporation and corporate officers; or
               c.   The company and its members.
            3.   Physical and mailing addresses of applicant’s home and
principal place of business and business and mobile telephone numbers;
            4.   Name and address of applicant’s registered agent for service
of process;
            5.   Physical address and description of each and every location at
which fireworks are to be stored;
            6.   Dates during which non-aerial common fireworks are to be
stored;
            7.   Physical address and a description of location at which the
public fireworks display is to occur;
            8.   Date(s) on which public fireworks display is to occur;
            9.   A site plan for the storage of fireworks to be used in the
public fireworks display for which the permit is sought, which plan shall
include, but shall not be limited to, a description of:
               a.   Location, type and dimensions of short-term storage
containers to be used; and
               b.   The distance from other structures of any short-term
storage container.
            10.   A site plan for the proposed site of the public fireworks
display for which the permit is sought, which plan shall comply with the
standards set forth in NFPA standards 1123 and 1126;
            11.   Description of prior pyrotechnical experience with
references, including dates, names of client(s) and a contact phone number for
them; and
            12.   Such other information as the City Clerk or Fire Code
Official may require.
         (c)   1.   The City Clerk shall direct the necessary investigations
into the application in order to determine:
               a.   Whether the proposed activities and/or uses are in
compliance with the city’s fireworks ordinance and/or all other applicable
provisions of this city code and/or state and/or federal law;
               b.   Whether use of such permit by applicant or applicant’s
agent, employee, partner or officer will constitute an unreasonable hazard to
persons or property;
               c.   Whether use of such permit on the date(s) and at the time
(s) proposed will constitute an unreasonable hazard to persons or property; and
               d.   Whether issuance of such permit will serve the best
interest of the city.
            2.   The City Clerk shall notify the Fire Department and the Police
Department, which Departments shall, with the City Clerk, cause an
investigation to be made of each application and applicant, and shall recommend
to the City Clerk whether he or she should grant or deny the public fireworks
display permit.
         (d)   Applications for public fireworks display permits shall be filed
with the City Clerk at least 45 days before the date on which the proposed
public fireworks display is to occur.
         (e)   So long as the application is filed at least 45 days preceding
the date on which the proposed public fireworks display is to occur, the City
Clerk shall notify the applicant if deficiencies in the application exist, and
the applicant shall have five business days from the date of the notice to
correct any deficiencies. Notwithstanding any such extension or extensions, any
application pending required action by applicant within 30 days of the proposed
public fireworks display shall be denied.
         (f)   A separate application shall be filed for each and every public
fireworks display, except for special seasonal uses such as high school
football games, where a single permit shall suffice for the entire season.
         (g)   The City Clerk shall deny an application for a public fireworks
display permit where:
            1.   The applicant is under the age of 21 years;
            2.   The applicant, or applicant’s agent, employee, partner or
officer, has been convicted in the preceding ten years of any crime involving
fraud, larceny, arson or illegal possession or sale of fireworks, including,
but not limited to, a violation of Idaho Code Title 39, Chapter 26;
            3.   The city has revoked from applicant, or applicant’s agent,
employee, partner or officer, a non-aerial common fireworks permit or public
fireworks display permit issued pursuant to the city’s fireworks ordinance, in
the preceding one year;
            4.   The Fire Department or Police Department report that:
               a.   The proposed operations, activities and/or uses are not in
compliance with the city’s fireworks ordinance and/or any other applicable
provisions of this city code and/or state and/or federal law;
               b.   Use of such permit by applicant or applicant’s agent,
employee, partner or officer will constitute an unreasonable hazard to persons
or property;
               c.   Use of such permit on the date(s) and at the time(s)
proposed will constitute an unreasonable hazard to persons or property; or
               d.   Issuance of such permit would not serve the best interest
of the city.
            5.   Any denial of an application for a public fireworks display
permit shall be made in writing and shall describe the reason(s) for such
denial. Such written denial shall be deemed effective immediately upon personal
service to the permittee or mailing by U.S. post to the applicant’s mailing
address as set forth in the application. The applicant may request a hearing on
such denial before the City Council. Such hearing shall be scheduled as
practicable at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the City Council. At
such hearing, the City Clerk shall present findings and information as to the
basis of the denial. The City Council shall have the authority to affirm the
denial or order the City Clerk to grant the permit. The action of the City
Council shall be final.
         (h)   Each public fireworks display permit application shall be
accompanied by an application fee as set in the current adopted city fee
schedule for each operation for which a permit is sought.
         (i)   Each public fireworks display permit application shall be
accompanied by a certificate of insurance for public liability and property
casualty insurance providing coverage with policy limits equal to or greater
than the minimum designated by Council resolution. The policy of insurance
shall be underwritten through or by a qualified and duly licensed insurance
company or companies doing or authorized to do insurance business in the state.
         (j)   A public fireworks display permit issued pursuant to the city’s
fireworks ordinance shall be valid only for the period designated and for the
specific location designated in the permit, and shall be nontransferable.
         (k)   1.   The City Clerk, the Fire Chief or a designee of either may
revoke or suspend a public fireworks display permit issued pursuant to the
city’s fireworks ordinance where:
               a.   The operator conducts a use, condition and/or activity not
allowed under the terms of the permit, or failure to follow recommendations of
any NFPA or other recognized safety standards relating to fireworks and
fireworks displays;
               b.   The operator violates conditions and/or limitations set
forth in the permit;
               c.   The application for the permit contains any material false
statements or misrepresentations;
               d.   The permit is used by a different operator or operation
than to whom it was issued;
               e.   The permit was issued in error or in violation of any
ordinance or law;
               f.   The permittee fails to comply with any order or notice duly
served in accordance with the provisions of the city’s fireworks ordinance or
other applicable law; and
               g.   The permittee fails to comply with any provision of federal
or state law, the State Fireworks Act and/or the city’s fireworks ordinance.
            2.   Any revocation of a public fireworks display permit shall be
made in writing and shall describe the reason(s) for such revocation. Such
written revocation shall be deemed effective immediately upon personal service
to the permittee or mailing by U.S. Postal Service to the permittee’s mailing
address as set forth in the application.
            3.   The permittee may request a hearing on such revocation before
the City Council. Such hearing shall be scheduled as practicable at the next
regularly scheduled meeting of the City Council. At such hearing, the City
Clerk, the Fire Chief or the designee thereof who revoked the permit shall
present findings and information as to the basis of the revocation. The City
Council shall have the authority to affirm the revocation or order the City
Clerk to reinstate the permit. The action of the City Council shall be final.
   (B)   Amendment Two. Intentionally omitted.
   (C)   Amendment Three. The city hereby adopts a new subsection to § 108 of
the IFC, entitled “Board of Appeals,” to wit, § 108.4, entitled “Procedure for
Appeals,” which new subsection provides a procedural framework for the
processing of appeals of a decision of the Fire Code Official made in
accordance with § 108 of the IFC, as follows.
   108.4 Board of Appeals; Procedure for Appeals. The Board of Appeals
established in § 108.1, above, shall be appointed and act in accordance with
the provisions of this § 108.4. All appeals brought pursuant to § 108 of the
IFC shall be processed in the manner described herein.
   108.4.1 Terms of Members of the Board of Appeals; Officers. Members of the
Board shall serve for five-year terms, provided that the persons first
appointed shall serve for one, two, three, four and five-year terms, so that
one term will expire each year. Terms will start on the date the initial five
members are officially appointed. The Board shall select from among its members
a chair, vice-chair and secretary.
   108.4.2 Services and Supplies. The City Clerk shall assign office help and
provide supplies for the work of the Board, as necessary.
   108.4.3 No Compensation. Members of the Board shall serve without pay.
Members may be reimbursed for their expenses.
   108.4.4 Appeal Procedure. Any person aggrieved by any decision of any person
or persons in the Building Department may appeal in the manner provided in this
section.
      108.4.4.1 Appeals to Appeals Board. Any person aggrieved by a decision of
the Fire Code Official hereunder may, within ten working days of the decision,
appeal to the Board of Appeals. The appeal shall be initiated by filing a
written petition with the City Clerk, requesting a hearing of the appeal,
setting forth the particular section of the International Fire Code involved,
and shall contain a detailed statement of the grounds and reasons why the
appellant believes the decision made was an incorrect interpretation of the
International Fire Code, why the provisions of the International Fire Code did
not apply, or that an equivalent method of protection or safety is proposed and
is appropriate. A $10 filing fee shall be submitted with the petition for
appeal to cover administrative costs and shall be made payable to the city and
directed to the City Clerk. Failure to file a timely written petition as
required herein shall constitute a waiver of the right to appeal and the
decision of the Building Official shall constitute a final determination.
      108.4.4.1 Schedule of Hearing. Upon receipt of a timely filed written
petition with the City Clerk, and the appropriate filing fee, the City Clerk
shall promptly notify the chairperson of the Board and the Fire Code Official
of the appeal. The City Clerk shall arrange a time and place for hearing on the
appeal. Written notification of the time, place and nature of the hearing shall
be given to the petitioner and the Board members within ten days after the
petition is filed with the City Clerk. Hearing shall be scheduled no later than
30 days after the date on which the petition was filed and may be extended for
a reasonable period by the chairperson upon written request of the petitioner
or Building Official, for good cause shown. If a petitioner fails to appear at
a scheduled hearing of his or her appeal, the Board may proceed with the
hearing and make a decision in the absence of the petitioner. In the event a
Board of Appeals has not yet been appointed at the time of the filing of the
petition, all of the time periods referenced in this § 108.4.4.1, above, shall
be tolled until the date upon which the Board of Appeals has been lawfully
appointed. Should a Board of Appeals not be lawfully appointed within 60 days
of the date of filing of a petition, Appellant may choose to proceed by making
a written request to the City Clerk that his or her appeal be considered
immediately by the City Council, as set forth in § 108.4.4.3, below.
      108.4.4.2 Hearing Procedures.
         108.4.4.2.1. The hearing shall be open to the public and shall be
recorded either by mechanical or manual means. Opportunity shall be afforded
all parties to respond and present evidence and argument on all issued
involved. Parties may represent themselves or may be represented by legal
counsel.
         108.4.4.2.2. Irrelevant, immaterial or unduly repetitious evidence may
be excluded. A finding shall be based upon the kind of evidence on which
reasonable prudent persons are accustomed to rely for the conduct of their
serious affairs, and may be based upon such evidence even if it would be
inadmissible in a court of law. The Board of Appeals shall give effect to the
rules of privilege recognized by law. Objections to the evidentiary offers may
be made and shall be noted in the record. Subject to these requirements, when a
hearing will be expedited and the interest of the parties will not be
prejudiced substantially, any part of the evidence may be required to be
submitted in verified written form.
         108.4.4.2.3. Documentary evidence may be received in the form of
copies or excerpts, if the original is not readily available. Upon request,
parties shall be given an opportunity to compare the copy with the original, if
available.
         108.4.4.2.4. Witnesses at the hearing, or available persons whose
testimony has been submitted in written form, shall be subject to cross-
examination by any party as necessary for a full and true disclosure of the
facts.
         108.4.4.2.5. The Board’s experience, technical competence and
specialized knowledge may be utilized and relied upon in the evaluation of the
evidence.
         108.4.4.2.6. The chairperson of the Board or his or her designee shall
conduct the hearing and have power to administer oaths. The Board may cause
subpoenas to be issued for such witnesses and the production of such books and
papers as either party may designate. The subpoenas may be signed by the
chairperson of the Board.
         108.4.4.2.7. No hearing shall be valid unless a majority of the Board
is present and no decision at the hearing shall be valid and binding unless
reached by a majority of all members of the Board.
      108.4.4.2 Prompt Decisions. The Appeals Board shall announce its
decision, in writing, within 20 working days of the date of the hearing before
the Board.
      108.4.4.3 Appeal to the City Council.
         108.4.4.3.1 Any party aggrieved by a decision of the Fire Code
Official, after appealing said decision to the Board of Appeals, may
subsequently appeal said decision to the City Council by filing a written
notice of such appeal with the City Clerk within ten days of the date of the
written decision of the Board of Appeals.
         108.4.4.3.2 The City Council will conduct a public hearing at the next
regularly scheduled Council meeting, following receipt of the appeal, provided
that a notice period of at least 15 days be provided to the Fire Code Official,
to the appellant, and to other interested parties, if any, prior to said
hearing. If there is not sufficient time for allowing said notice then the
public hearing will be held at the first regularly scheduled Council meeting
which will allow for a 15-day notice of hearing.
         108.4.4.3.3 The public hearing shall be conducted in accordance with
the provisions of the State Administrative Procedures Act, Idaho Code §§ 67-
5201 et seq.
         108.4.4.3.4 The decision of the City Council as to the appeal shall be
issued in writing, shall be based upon the same standards as the appeal to the
Board of Appeals, and shall be a final decision.
         108.4.4.3.5 A party aggrieved by the appeal decision may seek judicial
review in the District Court of the Third Judicial District within 28 days of
the adoption and issuance of the written decision by the City Council.
   (D)   Amendment Four. The city hereby adopts Appendix J of the IFC, entitled
“Building Information Sign.”
(Ord. 3305, passed 12-21-2020; Ord. 3431, passed 11-15-2022)
§ 08-13-11 APPEALS.
   (A)   Whenever the Fire Code Official, other than the Fire Chief,
disapproves an application or refuses to grant a permit applied for, or
portions of any inspection or plan review are in dispute and cannot be mediated
between the Fire Code Official and the party/parties involved, the first course
of appeal is to the Fire Chief.
   (B)   Whenever the Chief disapproves an application or refuses to grant a
permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the code do
not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code has been misconstrued
or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision of the Chief
to a Board of Appeals within 30 days from the date of the decision appealed.
   (C)   The Appeals Board will determine the suitability of alternate
materials and type of construction, and to provide for reasonable
interpretation of the provisions of this code, the Board has to act within the
scope and purpose of the code. The Appeals Board cannot violate the code in
their rulings.
   (D)   There shall be and hereby is created a Board of Appeals consisting of
five members who are qualified by experience and training to pass upon
pertinent matters. The Fire Chief shall be an ex officio member and shall act
as secretary of the Board. The Board of Appeals shall be appointed by the Mayor
with the advice and consent of the Council and shall hold office at their
pleasure. The Board shall render all decisions and findings in writing to the
Fire Chief, with a duplicate copy to the appellant, and may recommend to the
executive body such new legislation as is consistent within the Fire Code.
   (E)   At the hearing before the Board of Appeals, the appellant may present
evidence, call witnesses and be represented by counsel. Within ten working days
after the date of the hearing, the Board of Appeals shall render its decisions
and/or findings.
   (F)   The decision of the Board of Appeals shall be final and conclusive.
Appeal from a decision of the Board must be made to the State Fire Marshal’s
office and then to the County District Court.
(Ord. 2678, passed 4-16-2007)
§ 08-13-13 REPEALED.
   [Reserved]
§ 08-13-15 FIRE DEPARTMENT FEES.
   The Chief shall recommend to the City Council, annually or as special needs
arise, a schedule of fees for various and specific services provided by the
Fire Department. The City Council shall review such recommendation(s) and
establish specific fees for various services rendered by the Fire Department by
resolution.
(Ord. 2678, passed 4-16-2007)
§ 08-13-17 NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES OR OCCUPANCIES WHICH MAY REQUIRE PERMITS.
   The Mayor of the city, the Chief, the Building Official and the Code
Official shall act as a committee to determine and specify, after giving
affected persons an opportunity to be heard, any new materials, processes or
occupancies for which permits are required in addition to those now enumerated
in said code. The Code Official shall post such lists in a conspicuous place in
his or her office and distribute copies thereof to interested persons.
(Ord. 1844, passed 3-5-1990; Ord. 2453, passed 12-16-2002)
§ 08-13-19 VALIDITY.
   The City Council hereby declares that should any section, paragraph,
sentence or word of this chapter or of the code or standards hereby adopted be
declared for any reason to be invalid, it is the intent of the City Council
that it would have passed all or portions of this chapter independent of the
elimination herefrom of any such portion as may be declared invalid.
(Ord. 2109, passed 11-6-1995; Ord. 2678, passed 4-16-2007)
CHAPTER 15: TRAINS, REGULATION OF SPEED
Section
   
08-15-01   Speed of trains
§ 08-15-01 SPEED OF TRAINS.
   No person, officer, agent or employee of any railroad company shall cause or
permit any train, engine or car to run, or to be run upon, over or across any
street or alley, from a point 2,000 feet west of Third Avenue, and continuing
in an easterly direction 2,000 feet east of 21st Avenue at a speed greater than
50 mph.
(Ord. 2068, passed 1-17-1995)
 
CHAPTER 17: OPEN BURNING OR DUMPING OF RUBBISH AND OTHER MATERIALS
[Reserved]
(Repealed by Ord. 2717, passed 12-17-2007)
Cross-reference:
   Similar provisions, see §
08-13-09
CHAPTER 19: METHAMPHETAMINE PRECURSOR DRUGS
Section
   
08-19-01   Definitions
   
08-19-02   Prohibited acts
   
08-19-03   Accessibility
   
08-19-04   Penalty
§ 08-19-01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   METHAMPHETAMINE PRECURSOR DRUG(S). Any substance that is:
      (1)   A drug or product containing as its sole active ingredient
pseudoephedrine, phenylpropanolamine or any of their salts, optical isomers or
salts of optical isomers; or
      (2)   A combination drug or product containing as one of its active
ingredients pseudoephedrine, phenylpropanolamine or any of their salts, optical
isomers or salts of optical isomers.
   OVER THE COUNTER SALES. A retail sale of a drug or product, but does not
include the sale of a drug or product pursuant to the terms of a valid
prescription.
   RETAILER. Any person, corporation, partnership or other business entity
conducting business within the city limits who sells or furnishes any over the
counter drug product containing methamphetamine precursor drugs to any person
who is the ultimate user or consumer of the product.
(Ord. 2568, passed 10-17-2005)
§ 08-19-02 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful within the incorporated limits of the city for any
retailer or employee thereof knowingly to sell, transfer or to otherwise
furnish in single transaction:
   (A)   More than three packages of any product that he or she knows to
contain more than a total weight of nine grams of methamphetamine precursor
drugs;
   (B)   A methamphetamine precursor drug to a person under the age of 18
years; and
   (C)   The limits established in this section shall not apply to any quantity
of methamphetamine precursor drugs dispensed pursuant to a valid prescription.
(Ord. 2568, passed 10-17-2005)
§ 08-19-03 ACCESSIBILITY.
   (A)   A business establishment that offers for sale methamphetamine
precursor drugs shall ensure that all packages of the drugs are displayed and
offered for sale only:
      (1)   Behind a checkout counter where the public is not permitted; or
      (2)   Inside a locked display case.
   (B)   All sales shall be conducted with an employee of the retailer and
cannot be conducted by a self-service system.
(Ord. 2568, passed 10-17-2005)
§ 08-19-04 PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful and punishable as a misdemeanor to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2568, passed 10-17-2005)
CHAPTER 21: GRAFFITI
Section
   
08-21-01   Definitions
   
08-21-02   Graffiti prohibited
   
08-21-03   Graffiti removal required
   
08-21-04   Graffiti notice to remove
   
08-21-05   City abatement option
   
08-21-06   Possession of graffiti implements
   
08-21-07   Penalty
§ 08-21-01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GRAFFITI. Any unauthorized inscription, word, figure, painting or other
defacement that is written, marked, etched, scratched, sprayed, drawn, painted
or engraved on or otherwise affixed to any surface of public or private
property by any graffiti implement, to the extent that the GRAFFITI was not
authorized in advance by the owner or occupant of the property, or, despite
advance authorization, is otherwise deemed a public nuisance by the Police
Department.
   GRAFFITI IMPLEMENT. An aerosol paint container, a broad-tipped marker, gum
label, paint stick or graffiti stick, etching equipment, brush or any other
device capable of scarring or leaving a visible mark on any natural or human-
made surface.
(Ord. 2595, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 08-21-02 GRAFFITI PROHIBITED.
   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and to be unlawful for any person to
place or put, by any means, any graffiti on any public or private property
without the permission of the owner of the premises on which the surface is
located, upon any natural surfaces such as rocks or trees or upon any other
surface whatsoever.
(Ord. 2595, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 08-21-03 GRAFFITI REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   Any person found to be in violation of §
08-21-02 shall be required to remove or cause to be removed the graffiti from
the surface on which it was placed. Inasmuch as it is often not possible to
determine the identity of the person who applied the graffiti, it shall be the
duty of the owner or person in control of the premises on which the graffiti
has been applied to promptly remove the graffiti after notice as hereinafter
set forth. If, after notice as hereinafter provided, the graffiti nuisance is
not abated, the city may proceed to abate the graffiti nuisance.
(Ord. 2595, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 08-21-04 GRAFFITI NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   (A)   Whenever the Chief of Police or his or her designated representative
discovers graffiti on any public or private property or any surfaces visible to
persons utilizing public rights-of-way within the city, he or she shall,
whenever seasonal temperatures permit the painting of exterior surfaces, cause
a notice to be issued to the owner or person in control of the premises to
abate the nuisance and remove the graffiti or cover it with paint or other
substance masking the graffiti from view.
   (B)   Said notice shall be served upon the owner(s) and/or occupant(s) of
the affected premises, as shown on the last property tax assessment rolls of
the county, with a copy to the occupant of the premises. If there is no known
address for the owner, the notice shall be served upon the owner at the
property where the graffiti was applied. Service of the notice may be
accomplished through personal service on the owner, occupant or person in
charge or control of the property, by mail, or by posting in a conspicuous
place upon the premises.
   (C)   Notice shall be in writing and shall clearly state that the owner or
person in charge or control of the property should remove from public view or
paint over the graffiti within ten days of receipt of the notice; that failure
to so abate will cause the city to abate the nuisance; that the owner or person
served may, within ten days of receipt of the notice, deliver in writing to the
Chief of Police his or her objections to the removal of the graffiti and
request a hearing before the City Council.
(Ord. 2595, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 08-21-05 CITY ABATEMENT OPTION.
   Nuisances which remain unabated after notice may, at the option of the city,
be removed, abated or destroyed by the city or its agents, after the following
steps have been taken.
   (A)   If, after ten calendar days from the date a written notice is
personally delivered to the property owner, or mailed to the property owner’s
address as shown in current official County Assessor records, no abatement of
the nuisance has occurred, the designated enforcement officer shall provide a
second ten-day notice to be delivered to the property owner by mail or personal
service, which shall indicate that if the property owner fails to abate the
nuisance or request a hearing before the City Council on the issue of whether
the nuisance should be abated, the city shall take steps to abate the same. If
said notice is returned as undeliverable, nothing shall preclude the city from
exercising its abatement option as specified herein.
   (B)   When the second ten-day notice has expired without abatement of the
nuisance and without a request for hearing, the Mayor’s designated enforcement
officer is authorized to remove, abate or destroy the nuisance. The designated
enforcement officer is authorized to utilize city personnel to abate the
nuisance or to contact the Mayor or Chief of Police in regard to contracting
for an outside party to abate the nuisance.
   (C)   If the property owner requests a hearing to show cause before the City
Council, the hearing shall, if feasible, be placed on the agenda of the next
regularly scheduled City Council meeting. The decision of the City Council
shall be final. A ten-day period shall be given the property owner after the
Council decision so that the property owner shall have additional opportunity
to abate the nuisance or to pursue any legal remedies or defenses at the
District Court level.
(Ord. 2595, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 08-21-06 POSSESSION OF GRAFFITI IMPLEMENTS.
   (A)   By minors at or near school facilities. It shall be unlawful for any
person under the age of 18 years to possess any graffiti implement while on any
school property, grounds, facilities, buildings or structures, or in areas
immediately adjacent to those specific locations upon public property, or upon
private property without the prior written consent of the owner or occupant of
such private property. The provisions of this section shall not apply to the
possession of broad-tipped markers by a minor attending or traveling to or from
a school at which the minor is enrolled if the minor is participating in a
class at the school that formally requires the possession of broad-tipped
markers.
   (B)   In designated public places. It shall be unlawful for any person to
possess any graffiti implement while in or upon any public facility, park,
playground, swimming pool, recreational facility or other public building or
structure owned or operated by the city or while in or within 50 feet of an
underpass, bridge abutment, storm drain or similar type of infrastructure
unless otherwise authorized by the city.
(Ord. 2595, passed 4-17-2006)
§ 08-21-07 PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor as
prescribed in §
01-01-05.
(Ord. 2595, passed 4-17-2006)
TITLE 9: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
1.   GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
3.   RULES OF THE ROAD
      
5.   TRAFFIC CONTROL REGULATIONS
      
7.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
9.   LOADING AND UNLOADING REGULATIONS
      
11.   BUSES, TAXICABS AND PUBLIC CARRIERS
      
13.   PARADES
      
15.   USE OF STREETS, LOAD RESTRICTIONS
      
17.   BICYCLES
      
19.   ROADSIDE MEMORIALS
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
09-01-01   State law adopted
   
09-01-03   Issuance of citations
   
09-01-05   Enforcement of regulations
   
09-01-07   Public employees
   
09-01-09   Smoking exhaust, sirens and the like
   
09-01-11   Unidentified, stolen, wrecked or abandoned motor vehicles
§ 09-01-01 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the intent of the governing body of the
city to aid and assist, by whatever means possible, for the utmost consistency
in traffic regulation among and between agencies of the state having
jurisdiction.
   (B)   Therefore, there is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing
rules and regulations for the use of all streets and public thoroughfares of
the city that certain code identified as the State Motor Vehicle Laws, more
particularly Idaho Code Title 49, and as the same may hereafter be revised by
the state legislature, or amended by the governing body, and the same is hereby
adopted and incorporated as an ordinance of the city as fully as though set
forth at length herein.
   (C)   Three copies of said state law, together with any revisions or
amendments, duly certified by the City Clerk, shall be kept on file in the
Clerk’s office for use and examination of and by the public.
§ 09-01-03 ISSUANCE OF CITATIONS.
   Upon a violation of any provisions of this title where it involves the
adoption of the laws hereinabove stated, the arresting officer shall execute
the citation in the following manner.
 
Violation of §
09-01-01 (being in particular, Idaho Code § 49-_______ ) .
 
§ 09-01-05 ENFORCEMENT OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Authority of police and fire officials.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the officers of the Police Department or
such officers as are assigned by the Chief of Police to enforce all street
traffic laws of the state and the municipality.
      (2)   Officers of the Police Department or such officers as are assigned
by the Chief of Police are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice,
hand or signal; provided, that in the event of a fire or other emergency or to
expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers of the Police Department
may direct traffic as conditions may require.
      (3)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate
vicinity.
   (B)   Required obedience. It shall be unlawful for any person to do any act
forbidden or fail to perform any act required herein.
   (C)   Obedience to police and fire officials. It shall be unlawful for any
person to willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction
of a police officer or Fire Department official.
§ 09-01-07 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES.
   The provisions of this title shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned
by or used in the service of the United States government, this state, county
or municipality, and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate any of
the provisions of this title except as otherwise provided.
§ 09-01-09 SMOKING EXHAUST, SIRENS AND THE LIKE.
   No vehicle shall be operated with an excessive smoking exhaust upon any
road, street or highway within the limits of the city. Gongs and sirens or
whistles shall not be used on any vehicles other than ambulances or vehicles
operated by a Police Department, Fire Department, Sheriff or other peace
officer or upon any such vehicle except when moving in response to emergency
calls.
§ 09-01-11 UNIDENTIFIED, STOLEN, WRECKED OR ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Removal. The Police Department is hereby authorized in addition to any
penalty that may be provided therefor, to remove an unidentified, stolen,
wrecked or abandoned motor vehicle or other personal property, as herein
defined, found upon any public thoroughfare or other property of the
municipality and shall keep the same in its custody and control at such place
as may be designated by said Police Department until redeemed by the owner; and
all such unidentified, stolen, wrecked or abandoned motor vehicles or other
personal property which now is in the possession of the Police Department shall
be subject to the actual cost of removal or tow from the public place and
actual cost of storage per day as long as the same is in possession and
custody.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE OR OTHER PERSONAL PROPERTY. Motor vehicles or
personal property, including any recreational vehicles or trailers which
remains upon the street or other public property for 48 hours, or which remains
upon private property or business property open to the public for five days or
longer, the owner of which cannot be located or the owner of which fails or
refuses to remove the same.
      STOLEN MOTOR VEHICLES OR OTHER PERSONAL PROPERTY. Property which the
Police Department has reasonable grounds to believe to be stolen.
      UNIDENTIFIED MOTOR VEHICLE OR OTHER PERSONAL PROPERTY. Motor vehicles or
other personal property, including any recreational vehicles or trailers, where
ownership thereof cannot be ascertained.
      WRECKED, DISMANTLED OR INOPERATIVE VEHICLE OR PART THEREOF or JUNK MOTOR
VEHICLE. An unsightly motor vehicle or a part or parts therefrom, which meets
any one of the following qualifications:
         (a)   It does not carry a current valid state registration and license
plates;
         (b)   It cannot be safely operated under its own power;
         (c)   It is not in a garage or other building;
         (d)   It does not have any one of the following: foot brakes, hand
brakes, headlights, taillights, horn, muffler, rearview mirror, windshield
wipers or adequate fenders; or
         (e)   It has one or more flat tires.
   (C)   Abandoned vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any owner or any person
in charge of a motor vehicle or other personal property, including any
recreational vehicle or trailer, to leave or abandon the same upon the streets
or other public property or any business property open to the public or upon
any private property.
   (D)   Storage. The accumulation and storage of wrecked, dismantled or
inoperative vehicles or parts thereof upon the streets or other public property
or any business property open to the public or upon any private property is
hereby found to create a condition tending to reduce the value of private
property, to promote blight and deterioration, to invite plundering, to create
fire hazards, to constitute an attractive nuisance creating a hazard to health
and safety of minors, to create a harborage for rodents and insects and to be
injurious to the health, safety and general welfare. Therefore, the presence of
a wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle or parts thereof on private or
public property, except as expressly hereinafter permitted, is hereby declared
to constitute a public nuisance which may be abated as such in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Maintaining a junk motor vehicle.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership or
corporation to maintain a junk motor vehicle, vehicles or parts thereof on
residential property, public property or business property open to the public
for a period of more than five days.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to:
         (a)   A vehicle or part thereof which is completely enclosed within a
building in a lawful manner where it is not visible from the street or other
public or private property; or
         (b)   A vehicle or part thereof which is stored or parked in a lawful
manner on private property in connection with the business of a licensed
dismantler, licensed vehicle dealer, a junk dealer or when such storage or
parking is necessary to the operation of a lawfully conducted business or
commercial enterprise.
   (F)   Notice. A warning notice to remove shall be placed upon said junk
motor vehicle, abandoned vehicle, vehicles or parts thereof.
   (G)   Removal. Any member of the Police Department may remove any junk motor
vehicle, abandoned vehicle, vehicles or parts thereof after five days if said
property is located on private property or business property open to the
public, or after 48 hours if said property is located on the streets or other
public property.
   (H)   Traffic infraction. As provided for in Idaho Code § 49-1802, if a
vehicle is found abandoned or under extraordinary circumstances and is removed
at the direction of any authorized officer, and is not redeemed by the owner or
lien holder within seven days of the tow, the last registered owner of record
is guilty of a traffic infraction, unless the owner has filed a release of
liability with the Department according to Idaho Code § 49-526, in which case
the transferee shown on the release of liability shall be guilty of a traffic
infraction.
   (I)   Refusal. It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor to interfere with,
hinder or refuse to allow any authorized city officer or employee to enter upon
private or public property to enforce the provisions of this section.
   (J)   Removal costs. If said junk motor vehicle, abandoned vehicle, vehicles
or parts thereof are not removed within the time so fixed, the Police
Department may cause said junk motor vehicle, abandoned vehicle, vehicles or
parts thereof to be removed and the actual costs of removal, towing and storage
fees shall be charged to the owner. A notice of the storage shall be sent by
certified mail to the registered and legal owner(s) within 48 hours, excluding
weekends and holidays, from the date of removal and/or towing. In the event
said junk motor vehicle, abandoned vehicle, vehicles or parts thereof are not
claimed by the lawful owner within ten days of the date of notice, then and in
that event, the same shall be sold according to law.
(Ord. 2713, passed 12-17-2007)
CHAPTER 3: RULES OF THE ROAD
Section
   
09-03-01   Basic speed limits
   
09-03-03   Driving through fresh oil
§ 09-03-01 BASIC SPEED LIMITS.
   The speed limit on all streets will be 20 mph unless otherwise marked.
(Ord. 1153, passed 2-3-1969)
§ 09-03-03 DRIVING THROUGH FRESH OIL.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven over a newly made street or part of street
or pavement at which is a person, barrier or sign warning traffic from such new
street, part of street or pavement.
   (B)   Whenever a street is in a dangerous condition, is being repaired or is
hazardous for the travel of vehicles upon such streets, the Chief of Police
shall have authority to prohibit vehicles and/or pedestrians from crossing or
traveling upon such street.
CHAPTER 5: TRAFFIC CONTROL REGULATIONS
Section
   
09-05-01   Specifications for traffic control devices
   
09-05-03   One-way streets and alleys
   
09-05-05   Direction of movement on streets
   
09-05-07   Traffic lanes
   
09-05-09   Crosswalks and safety zones
   
09-05-11   Controlling turning
   
09-05-13   Stopping designations
§ 09-05-01 SPECIFICATIONS FOR TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   All traffic control signs, signals and devices shall conform to the “Manual
on Uniform Traffic Control Devices,” as published by the Department of
Transportation, Federal Highway Administration, 1988 Edition, or the most
recent edition of said manual.
(Ord. 1899, passed 5-6-1991)
§ 09-05-03 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Whenever any regulations of this municipality designate any one-way street
or alley, the City Traffic Commission shall place and maintain signs giving
notice thereof, and no such regulation shall be effective unless such signs are
in place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be
placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite
direction is prohibited.
(Ord. 1166, passed 6-16-1969)
§ 09-05-05 DIRECTION OF MOVEMENT ON STREETS.
   (A)   The City Traffic Commission is hereby authorized to determine and
designate streets, parts of streets or specific lanes thereon upon which
vehicular traffic shall proceed in one direction during one period, and the
opposite direction during another period of the day, and shall place and
maintain appropriate markings, signs, barriers or other devices to give notice
thereof.
   (B)   The City Traffic Commission may erect signs temporarily designating
lanes to be used by traffic moving in a particular direction, regardless of the
center line of the roadway.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle violating
such markers, signs, barriers or other devices so placed.
(Ord. 1166, passed 6-16-1969)
§ 09-05-07 TRAFFIC LANES.
   (A)   The City Traffic Commission is hereby authorized to mark traffic lanes
upon the roadway of any street or highway where a regular alignment of traffic
is necessary.
   (B)   Where such traffic lanes have been marked, it shall be unlawful for
the operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep such vehicle within the
boundaries of such lane except when lawfully passing another vehicle or
preparatory to making a lawful turning movement.
§ 09-05-09 CROSSWALKS AND SAFETY ZONES.
   The City Traffic Commission is hereby authorized to:
   (A)   Designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon
the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where, in its opinion,
there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway and at such
other places as it may deem necessary; and
   (B)   Establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such places
as it may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians.
§ 09-05-11 CONTROLLING TURNING.
   (A)   Authority to place and obedience to turning markers.
      (1)   The City Traffic Commission is authorized to place markers, buttons
or signs within or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to be
traveled by vehicles turning at such intersections, and such course to be
traveled as so indicated may conform to or be other than prescribed by law.
      (2)   When authorized markers, buttons or other indicators are placed
within an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning
thereat, it shall be unlawful for a driver of a vehicle to disobey the
directions of such indicators.
   (B)   Authority to place restricted turn signs. The City Traffic Commission
is hereby authorized to determine those intersections at which drivers of
vehicles shall not make a right, left or U-turn and shall place proper signs at
such intersections. The making of such turns may be prohibited between certain
hours of any day and permitted at other hours. In which event, the same shall
be plainly indicated on the signs, or they may be removed when such turns are
permitted.
   (C)   Obedience to no-turn signs. It shall be unlawful for any driver of any
vehicle to turn such vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon
any street in a Business District and shall not upon any other street so turn a
vehicle unless such movement can be made in safety and without interfering with
other traffic.
   (D)   No U-turns. No U-turn or turn reversing the direction of travel shall
be made:
      (1)   At any intersection in which “No U-turn” signs are erected;
      (2)   At any intersection at which there is an automatic traffic signal;
      (3)   At any place other than at an intersection;
      (4)   Unless there be sufficient space to make such turn without backing;
and
      (5)   Unless, prior to and during such turn, the same be signaled in the
manner required by state law.
§ 09-05-13 STOPPING DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Special stops required. Whenever any laws of the municipality
designate and describe a through street, it shall be the duty of the City
Traffic Commission to place and maintain a stop sign on each and every street
intersecting such through street or intersecting that portion thereof described
and designated as such, unless traffic at any such intersection is controlled
at all times by traffic signals; provided, however, that at the intersection of
two such through streets or at the intersection of a through street and a heavy
traffic street not so designated, stop signs shall be erected at the approaches
of either of said streets as may be determined by the City Traffic Commission
upon the basis of an engineering and traffic study.
   (B)   Intersections where stop required. The City Traffic Commission is
hereby authorized to determine and designate intersections where particular
hazards exist upon other than through streets and to determine whether vehicles
shall stop at one or more entrances to any such stop intersection and shall
erect a stop sign at every such place where a stop is required. Provided, that
the City Traffic Commission may, in its discretion, establish yield right-of-
way signs at such intersections as it is deemed advisable. Such signs shall
indicate that an intersection may be entered without stopping if no vehicles
are approaching along the street whereon the yield right-of-way signs control
entering traffic.
(Ord. 1166, passed 6-16-1969)
CHAPTER 7: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
09-07-01   Applicability of regulations
   
09-07-02   Definitions
   
09-07-03   Standing or parking on roadways or streets
   
09-07-04   Manner of parking; motorcycle parking
   
09-07-05   Parking adjacent to curbs
   
09-07-06   Parking in and blocking alleys prohibited
   
09-07-07   Standing or parking near hazardous or congested places
   
09-07-08   Angled parking spaces
   
09-07-09   Designation of prohibited, time limited or loading/delivery zones
   
09-07-10   Municipal parking lots
   
09-07-11   Restricted parking of trucks
   
09-07-12   Downtown parking restrictions
   
09-07-13   Improperly parked vehicles generally; no signs required
   
09-07-14   Notice of parking violations and procedures; failure to pay parking
violation
§ 09-07-01 APPLICABILITY OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Application. The provisions of this chapter prohibiting the standing
or parking of any vehicle, or the method of parking, to include motorcycles,
shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as indicated on
official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
official traffic control device.
   (B)   Regulations not exclusive. The provisions of this chapter imposing a
time limit on parking shall not relieve any person from the duty to observe
other and more restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping,
standing or parking of vehicles in specified places or at specified times.
(Ord. 3747, passed 3-16-2026)
§ 09-07-02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, definitions found in Idaho Code Title 49,
Chapter 1, as well as the following definitions, shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Under Idaho Code § 49-102, any vehicle observed by an
authorized officer or reported by a member of the public to have been left
within the limits of any highway or on the property of another without the
consent of the property owner for a period of 24 hours or longer, except that a
vehicle shall not be considered ABANDONED if its owner-operator is unable to
remove it from the place where it is located and has notified a law enforcement
agency and requested assistance.
   ACCESS AISLE. An accessible pedestrian space around parking spaces, lots or
areas that provides clearance appropriate for use of such spaces, lots or
areas.
   ACCESSIBLE ROUTE. A continuous unobstructed path that may include parking
access aisles, curb ramps, crosswalks at vehicular ways, walks, ramps and
lifts.
   ALLEY. A public way of limited use intended only to provide access to the
rear or side of lots or buildings in urban districts.
   CAMPER. A separate vehicle designed for human habitation and which can be
attached or detached from a motor vehicle.
   DOUBLE PARKED. Stopped or parked on the roadway side of a vehicle which is
stopped or parked in an officially designated parking space; or adjacent to the
curb line of a street. The term DOUBLE PARKING also describes parking over the
lines of any designated parking space, whether such space is separating two
designated parking spaces or not.
   JUNK VEHICLE. 
      (1)   Any vehicle which:
         (a)   Does not meet the vehicle equipment standards of Idaho Code
Title 49, Chapter 9 as a result of damage or neglect;
         (b)   Is not operable and is not in the current process of being
restored or repaired by its owner(s); or
         (c)   Is not currently registered according to Idaho Code Title 49,
Chapter 4.
      (2)   JUNK VEHICLES shall be kept in a building or behind a solid sight-
obscuring fence, out of public view.
      (3)   This is a distinct and separate classification from abandoned
vehicle. JUNK VEHICLES are unregistered, fail to conform to vehicle equipment
standards and are not in the process of repair and restoration.
   LOADING ZONE. A space or section of a street, which has been set aside for
the exclusive purpose of loading and unloading of persons, supplies and/or
merchandise. Such zone shall be marked by appropriate signage, curb markings or
diagonal street striping.
   MOTOR HOME. A self-contained vehicle, designed for human habitation, with
its own motor power and with a passageway from the body of the home to the
driver’s and front passenger’s seat.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground,
but excluding a tractor.
   PARKING OFFICER. Any police officer, city employee or contracted third-party
operator assigned the responsibility of enforcing parking regulations.
   PARKING SPACES (ACCESSIBLE). Includes the width required for the parking
stall and the required parking access aisles. Parked vehicles shall not reduce
the clear width of an access aisle or accessible route.
   RESTRICTED PARKING ZONE/DISTRICT. The area of the city so designated for the
purpose of providing special regulations for the control of parking and
traffic.
   TRAILER. A vehicle without motor power designed for carrying persons or
property on its own structure and to be drawn by a vehicle with motor power.
The term TRAILER shall include trailer coach, boat trailer, semitrailer, travel
trailer or utility trailer.
   VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled but not operated upon rails,
except vehicles moved solely by human power.
(Ord. 3747, passed 3-16-2026)
§ 09-07-03 STANDING OR PARKING ON ROADWAYS OR STREETS.
   (A)   All vehicles shall be parked on the right-hand side of the street
facing in the direction in which traffic is permitted to move; except that on
one-way streets in the city vehicles may park on either side of the one-way
street in the direction in which traffic is permitted to move, unless otherwise
noted herein.
      (1)   Standing or parking on one-way streets. The City Traffic Commission
is authorized to erect signs upon the left-hand side of any one-way street to
prohibit the standing or parking of vehicles, and when such signs are in place,
it shall be unlawful for any person to stand or park a vehicle upon such left-
hand side of the street.
      (2)   Parking prohibited on narrow streets. The City Traffic Commission
is hereby authorized to erect signs indicating no parking upon any narrow
street.
   (B)   When official signs prohibiting parking are erected upon narrow
streets as authorized herein, it shall be unlawful for any person to park a
vehicle upon any such street in violation of such signs.
(Ord. 3747, passed 3-16-2026)
§ 09-07-04 MANNER OF PARKING; MOTORCYCLE PARKING.
   (A)   Any vehicle parked within a parking space or loading zone shall be
parked entirely within the markings designating one parking space and shall be
parked parallel or diagonal to the curb in accordance with the marking of the
parking space unless otherwise noted herein.
   (B)   Provided, however, that up to two three-wheeled motorcycles or four
two-wheeled motorcycles may be parked in a single parking space. If time
restrictions and/or parking fees apply to such space, each motorcycle shall be
treated as a separate vehicle for purposes of parking enforcement.
(Ord. 3747, passed 3-16-2026)
§ 09-07-05 PARKING ADJACENT TO CURBS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, every vehicle stopped or
parked upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs shall be so stopped or
parked with the right-hand wheels of such vehicle parallel to and within 18
inches of the right-hand curb.
(Ord. 3747, passed 3-16-2026)
§ 09-07-06 PARKING IN AND BLOCKING ALLEYS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or direct another person
to park any vehicle in any alley, except temporarily for a period of time not
to exceed 30 minutes, for the purpose of and while actually taking on or
letting off passengers, or loading or unloading or delivering goods,
merchandise or other personal property.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or direct another to park
or drive any vehicle in an alley at any time in such a manner as to block the
alley for traffic.
(Ord. 3747, passed 3-16-2026)
§ 09-07-07 STANDING OR PARKING NEAR HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES.
   (A)   The City Traffic Commission is hereby authorized to determine and
designate by proper signs those places not exceeding 100 feet in length in
which the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles would create a hazardous
condition or would cause unusual delay in traffic flow.
   (B)   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places as
authorized herein, it shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park a
vehicle in any such designated place.
(Ord. 3747, passed 3-16-2026)
§ 09-07-08 ANGLED PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   Upon those streets which have been signed or marked for angle parking,
no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or
edge of the roadway as indicated by such signs or markings. The wheel nearest
the curb or edge of the roadway shall be no more than 12 inches away from said
curb or edge.
   (B)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any space which has
been signed or marked for angled parking so that the vehicle, or any portion
thereof, extends into the traveled portion of the roadway so that the vehicle
either obstructs, endangers or is likely to obstruct or endanger pedestrians or
traffic.
   (C)   No person shall back a vehicle, other than a motorcycle, into an
angled parking space, unless signage specifically allows back-in parking.
(Ord. 3747, passed 3-16-2026)
§ 09-07-09 DESIGNATION OF PROHIBITED, TIME LIMITED OR LOADING/DELIVERY ZONES.
   (A)   Designation of prohibited parking.
      (1)   Wherever on any public property or street, the curb is painted, the
parking surface has stripes or an appropriate sign has been erected, by or
under the direction of the city, the marking or sign shall indicate that it is
a no parking zone, and it shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle
adjacent to the curb(s) or on the pavement marking.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to park a vehicle, or, having parked
the same, to suffer it to remain parked in violation of the regulations of any
duly installed parking sign or markings.
   (B)   Designation of time-limited parking. 
      (1)   No vehicle shall be parked for a longer period of time than that
designated by appropriate signs. Each subsequent period of time for which the
vehicle remains beyond the allowed time period as specified by signage shall
constitute a separate violation.
      (2)   Once a vehicle has remained in a zone for the maximum time
allotted, the vehicle must be moved from one time-limited zone into a different
time-limited zone. (For example, if a vehicle is parked in the three-hour zone
and the three-hour time limit is reached, such vehicle must move into the four-
hour zone or free parking zone to be in compliance with this chapter and not be
subject to ticketing (see §
9-07-12 for downtown parking restrictions).
   (C)   Restricted parking zones/districts. The City Council may by resolution
establish locations for the allotment of restricted residential only,
commercial business only or other restricted parking zones/districts, maximum
parking time limits, applicable hours and seasonal enforcement dates. When
official signs are erected as authorized herein, it shall be unlawful for any
person to park a vehicle upon any such street in violation of such signs.
      (1)   Parking in residential permit parking zones. Any vehicle upon which
a current residential parking permit is properly displayed may be parked in the
zone to which the permit applies without regard to posted time limitations,
except that the vehicle may only be parked pursuant to the permit within two
blocks of the residence on the registration of the vehicle. The permit shall be
affixed to the bottom comer of the front window and shall be clearly visible at
all times. Failure to properly display the permit is a violation of this
section.
      (2)   Parking in commercial business parking zones. Any vehicle parked in
a commercial business parking zone, and who is not conducting business at such
businesses adjacent to the zone, shall be in violation of this code.
(Ord. 3747, passed 3-16-2026)
§ 09-07-10 MUNICIPAL PARKING LOTS.
   All parking lots financed and operated by the city within the city limits
shall be under the control of the City Council.
   (A)   Parking permits. The city may issue the parking permits described in
division (B) below.
   (B)   Parking leases. The city may issue monthly or annual parking leases.
The lease grants parking privileges for a particular parking space in a
specific municipal parking lot. The charges for such parking lease shall be as
set by resolution of the City Council. Only vehicles displaying a parking
permit for that particular parking space may park in a leased space. Violators
may be cited.
   (C)   Violations. Vehicles parked in violation of this chapter may be
ticketed and/or towed at the vehicle registered owner’s expense.
(Ord. 3747, passed 3-16-2026)
§ 09-07-11 RESTRICTED PARKING OF TRUCKS.
   (A)   No truck (as defined by the state statues), semi-truck, semi-trailer,
truck tractor, truck trailer or combinations of them, shall be parked on any
street, alley or other public right-of-way within any residential area, within
the limits of the city, other than for the purpose of making normal deliveries
or moving household goods, except as permitted within divisions (B) and (C)
below.
   (B)   Trucks (defined by the state statues), semi-trucks, semi-trailers,
truck tractors, truck trailers or combinations of them, may be parked on any
street, alley or other public right-of-way, or upon any through street within
the limits of the city, for a period of not more than 30 minutes for the
purpose of actively loading or unloading of materials; provided such truck does
not create a traffic or other hazard. In no case shall a truck be parked
blocking access to and through any street or alley.
   (C)   Semi-trucks, semi-trucks with trailers, truck tractors with trailers
or other types of large moving trucks, may be parked on any street, alley or
other public right-of-way, or upon any through street within the limits of the
city, for a period of not more than 72 hours for the purpose of actively moving
a residential dwelling from one location to another, or a commercial business
from one location to another; provided such truck does not create a traffic or
other hazard. In no case shall a truck be parked blocking access to and through
any street or alley.
   (D)   The provisions of this chapter imposing time limits on truck parking
shall not relieve any person from the duty to observe other and more
restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping, standing or
parking of vehicles in specified places or at specified times.
(Ord. 3747, passed 3-16-2026)
§ 09-07-12 DOWNTOWN PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BLOCK. The area on both sides of a street between nearest cross streets
or intersections.
      DOWNTOWN PARKING DISTRICT. All public streets and all off-street public
parking facilities within the boundaries of the DOWNTOWN PARKING DISTRICT.
      DOWNTOWN PARKING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES. The area shown as “Downtown” within
the city’s comprehensive plan future land use.
      ZONES. A specific number of connected parking space(s), either on a
public street, or in a public-owned parking lot, signed the same, to control
duration of parking allowed and/or types of person(s) allowed to park in those
identified spaces.
   (B)   Authorization. The City Council may by resolution establish locations
within the Downtown District for the allotment of maximum parking time limits,
applicable hours and seasonal enforcement dates.
   (C)   Intent of regulated parking. The intent of the Downtown Parking
District is intended to manage parking capacity in downtown Caldwell through
the use of time-limited parking restrictions and parking permits for people
parking for residential and business uses. Time-restricted and permitted
parking enables the city to manage parking demand for residential users,
employees of businesses in the Downtown District and consumers, customers and
guests to the downtown area in order to:
      (1)   Support downtown businesses by making parking available and by
encouraging economic development;
      (2)   Maintain adequate turnover of city-controlled parking spaces;
      (3)   Encourage an adequate amount of parking availability for a variety
of parking users, efficient use of city-controlled perimeter parking locations
and encourage use of transportation alternatives; and
      (4)   Reduce congestion in travel lanes caused by drivers seeking
available parking.
   (D)   Violation a civil infraction. Any registered owner or operator of a
vehicle who violates any provision of this section shall be deemed guilty of a
civil infraction, and upon conviction shall be punishable by a civil infraction
penalty as established by resolution of the City Council.
   (E)   Off-street public parking lots.
      (1)   (a)   Parking within public municipal parking lots within the
Downtown Parking District is not subject to time restrictions, except for
vehicles left without the city’s consent for 24 hours or longer. Vehicles left
for a period of 24 hours or longer are considered abandoned in accordance with
Idaho Code Title 49, Chapter 1, and are subject to ticketing and/or towing.
         (b)   Exception: vehicles shall not be considered abandoned if its
owner-operator is unable to remove it from the place where it is located and
has notified a law enforcement agency and requested assistance.
      (2)   Parking is available 24/7 with a valid and lawfully issued parking
permit.
      (3)   Except for vehicles authorized by a lawfully issued parking permit,
it is unlawful for any person to park or direct another person to park a
vehicle in any public parking lot in the Downtown Parking District in violation
of this chapter and the applicable signage.
      (4)   The city may request removal of vehicles within parking lots at any
time for the purpose of a public event and/or snow removal. Advanced notice
will be given for events.
   (F)   On-street parking time-limitations; Downtown Parking District. On-
street parking restrictions and time limitations within the Downtown Parking
District are regulated and adopted by resolution of the City Council.
   (G)   Overnight parking. It shall be unlawful for any person without a
lawfully issued parking permit to park a vehicle or trailer within the streets
of downtown for any period of time between the hours of 3:00 a.m. and 5:00
a.m., except a vehicle or trailer may be parked for a period of time not to
exceed 30 minutes, for the purposes of actively loading and/or unloading. This
prohibition is for the purpose of street sweeping, maintenance and snow
removal.
   (H)   Parking fees and fine schedule. The fees and fines associated with
parking in the Downtown District shall be in accordance with the rate schedule
adopted by resolution of the City Council.
   (I)   Accessible parking or parking with special placards.
      (1)   Accessible parking spaces designated for use in accordance with the
Americans with Disabilities Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 12101 et seq. shall only be
occupied by vehicles displaying a special license plate for a person with a
disability, or a special placard as prescribed in Idaho Code § 49-410. Vehicles
parked legally in an accessible parking space designated for use in accordance
with the Americans with Disabilities Act are exempt from time limitations.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle displaying special license plates for a person
with a disability, without regard to the state of residence or displaying the
special placard provided in Idaho Code § 49-410(4) and (8), shall be allowed to
park for unlimited periods of time in parking zones or areas that are otherwise
restricted as to the length of time parking is permitted, to park in spaces and
zones designated for persons with a disability, and to park in any public
parking space with metered parking without being required to pay any parking
meter fee.
(Ord. 3747, passed 3-16-2026)
§ 09-07-13 IMPROPERLY PARKED VEHICLES GENERALLY; NO SIGNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   A ticket may be issued to the registered owner of any vehicle parked
in violation of this chapter, or any vehicle parked so as to obstruct the free
movement of traffic or causing a traffic hazard. When the identity of the
operator cannot be determined, the owner or person or the corporation in whose
name the said vehicle is registered or the named lessees in a rental or lease
agreement of said vehicle shall be presumed prima facie responsible for said
violation. Provided, further, that any such improperly parked vehicle may also
be towed, upon order of the Police Department or city-authorized parking
officer, in addition or as an alternative to issuance of the aforementioned
ticket. Whenever any vehicle is towed and placed in storage in accordance with
this chapter, all expenses incurred by the city for storage and towing shall be
paid by the owner before such vehicle is released from such impoundment.
   (B)   In order to eliminate burdening courts with misdemeanor violations of
ordinances and to eliminate insofar as possible public inconvenience, the
parking officer may also issue parking tickets for the stopping, standing or
parking of any vehicle, whether occupied or not, in violation of this chapter
and for the following:
      (1)   Overtime parking;
      (2)   Second overtime parking violation within 30 days of the first
violation;
      (3)   Third overtime parking violation within 30 days of the first
violation;
      (4)   Fourth and subsequent overtime parking violations within 30 days of
the first violation;
      (5)   Parking in a no parking zone;
      (6)   Parking within 15 feet of a fire hydrant, to include parking in
front of the hydrant;
      (7)   Blocking driveway with a parked vehicle;
      (8)   Parking in alley;
      (9)   Parking within 25 feet of corner;
      (10)   Double parking;
      (11)   Parking with the vehicle headed in wrong direction;
      (12)   Parking on or within 20 feet of either side of a crosswalk;
      (13)   Parking on or across sidewalks or in such a manner as to obstruct
the route of passage between such sidewalks;
      (14)   Parking with wheels over 18 inches from curb;
      (15)   Parking within 20 feet of or closer to a stop sign, flashing
beacon or traffic control signal (measured in all directions);
      (16)   Parking in fire lane or along any yellow or red painted curb;
      (17)   Parking commercial trucks/commercial vehicles in violation of this
chapter;
      (18)   Parking in city parks after sunset;
      (19)   Parking or driving on grass;
      (20)   Unauthorized parked in handicap stall or adjacent access aisle;
      (21)   Parking on a bike lane or bike path;
      (22)   Camper, motor home, recreational vehicle or trailer parked on the
street, unless for the purpose of being actively loaded and/or unloaded, in
which case, such vehicle may not be parked for more than 48 hours and must be
removed from the street or any nearby streets for a minimum of five calendar
days;
      (23)   Stopping, standing or parking where official signs prohibit or
restrict parking;
      (24)   Failure to display proper parking permit, to include residential
permit parking, leased parking and temporary use permit parking;
      (25)   Parking on commercial vehicle lots;
      (26)   Temporary parking permit violation;
      (27)   Unauthorized parking on streets and public property;
      (28)   Parking in violation of §
10-02-05 of the zoning regulations;
      (29)   Parking in front of a mailbox in a manner that would prevent the
distribution of mail by the United States Postal Service; and
      (30)   Motor vehicles or any trailers stopped, parked, placed or stored
on public streets or alleys or within public view on private property, that:
         (a)   Does not carry current valid state registration;
         (b)   Does not have current and proper vehicle license plate
displayed;
         (c)   Cannot be safely operated under its own power;
         (d)   Does not have any one of the following: foot brakes, hand
brakes, headlights, taillights, horn, muffler, rearview mirror, windshield
wipers or adequate fenders; and
         (e)   Has one or more flat tires.
   (C)   (1)   If a vehicle upon which a ticket has been attached remains in
the same location the day after the ticket has been attached, additional
parking tickets may be attached to the vehicle for each day of violation.
      (2)   Exception: for overtime parking, a separate ticket may be issued
for each separate block of time that has exceeded the parking time limitations.
For instance, if a vehicle is parked in a three-hour zone for more than three
hours, they are subject to an overtime ticket. If the vehicle remains parked in
the three-hour zone for another three hours (total now of more than six hours),
it is subject to another overtime parking ticket.
   (D)   If a vehicle upon which a violation has been observed leaves the
location prior to the compliance officer being able to leave the parking ticket
upon the vehicle, such ticket shall be mailed to the registered owner or the
named lessees in a rental or lease agreement of said vehicle.
   (E)   Fines for parking violations listed in this chapter shall be
established by resolution of the City Council upon recommendation of the Chief
of Police or the Community Development Director.
   (F)   Enhanced fines for second, third, fourth and subsequent parking
violations occurring within 30 days of the first parking violation may be
established by resolution of the City Council upon recommendation of the Chief
of Police or the Community Development Director.
(Ord. 3747, passed 3-16-2026)
§ 09-07-14 NOTICE OF PARKING VIOLATIONS AND PROCEDURES; FAILURE TO PAY PARKING
VIOLATION.
   (A)   Notice of parking violations and procedures.
      (1)   Upon observing any vehicle stopped, standing or parked in violation
of the provisions of this chapter, the police officers, community service
officers, parking compliance officers or other assigned regulatory agency are
authorized to serve a notice of parking violation (“parking citation”) by any
one or more of the following means:
         (a)   By securing a parking citation to the vehicle;
         (b)   By personally serving the operator or owner of the vehicle with
a parking citation;
         (c)   By personally serving a passenger of the vehicle with a parking
citation in the presence of the owner or operator of the vehicle; or
         (d)   By mailing, via United States Postal Service first class mail, a
parking citation to the vehicle’s owner at the address maintained in motor
vehicle registration records or other contracted database service providers.
      (2)   Every parking citation shall include the following, if applicable
to the observed violation:
         (a)   The date and time at which the violation was observed;
         (b)   The location where the violation occurred, including if
relevant, the parking meter number;
         (c)   The license plate number or vehicle identification number (VIN)
and make of the vehicle observed to be in violation;
         (d)   The code section violated and a brief description of the
violation;
         (e)   The fine amount;
         (f)   Instructions explaining how the registered owner or operator of
the vehicle in violation may pay the fine associated with the violation; and
         (g)   A statement describing the process by which the operator or
registered owner of the vehicle in violation may contest the violation
indicated on the parking citation.
      (3)   A separate parking citation may be served for each violation,
including cumulative violations for each time period exceeded.
      (4)   One copy or an automated record of each parking citation shall be
filed with the Community Development Department, Police Department or other
assigned regulatory agency.
   (B)   Payment of fines.
      (1)   Each person served with a parking citation shall, within ten
business days from the date on the parking citation, or if notice is served by
mail, within ten business days from the date of posting to the address of the
vehicle’s registered owner:
         (a)   Pay the corresponding parking fine;
         (b)   Pay the corresponding parking fine amount, plus any applicable
fees, in person or by using an on-line payment system authorized by the city;
or
         (c)   Submit to the Community Development Department – Parking
Division or Police Department (depending on what agency wrote the ticket) a
request for reconsideration of the violation indicated on the parking citation.
A request for reconsideration is an informal process where a person who
received a parking citation may submit a written challenge to the validity of a
parking citation and ask for reconsideration of the citation by the applicable
enforcement department. The applicable enforcement department shall issue a
decision within ten business days of the receipt of the request for
reconsideration and the decision shall become effective immediately.
      (2)   Failure of an operator or owner to either pay the parking fine or
to request reconsideration of the parking citation within ten business days
from the date on the parking citation or, if notice is served by mail, within
ten business days from the date of posting notice to the address of the
vehicle’s registered owner, shall result in an additional administrative fee in
an amount as established by the City Council by resolution. The administrative
fee may be assessed every six months to defray the ongoing administrative and
personnel costs and mailing expenses arising from the overdue fines.
   (C)   Delinquent parking citations.
      (1)   The city may utilize all available collection methods to recoup
fines and fees owed on all delinquent parking citations. Nothing herein alters
the assessment of fees associated with failure to pay the parking citation
within the time frames dictated within this section. Said failure to pay may
also result in:
         (a)   Authorizing a collection agency to use all possible legal means
to satisfy this outstanding parking ticket(s). If an outstanding parking ticket
(s) is referred to collection, the vehicle owner will be subject to additional
collection fees established by the collection agency; or
         (b)   The issuance of a summons. The fine and court costs for summons
will be as set by the applicable state infraction rules, as amended. Failure to
appear on the summons could result in the suspension of a person’s driver’s
license as provided by the state code.
      (2)   A parking citation shall be deemed delinquent if:
         (a)   The registered owner or operator fails to either pay or contest
a parking citation in court within ten days from the date of its original date
of issuance;
         (b)   The registered owner fails to either pay or contest a parking
citation within ten days from the date of posting notice of the citation by
U.S. first class mail to the address of the vehicle’s registered owner; or
         (c)   The registered owner or operator fails to accept service of the
summons within 30 days of his or her written notice to contest the parking
citation in court.
(Ord. 3747, passed 3-16-2026)
CHAPTER 9: LOADING AND UNLOADING REGULATIONS
Section
   
09-09-01   Loading or unloading only
   
09-09-03   Permits
   
09-09-05   Standing in passenger curb loading zone
   
09-09-07   Standing in freight curb loading zone
§ 09-09-01 LOADING OR UNLOADING ONLY.
   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to determine the location of
passenger and freight curb loading zones and shall place and maintain
appropriate signs indicating the same and stating the hours during which the
provisions of this chapter are applicable.
§ 09-09-03 PERMITS.
   (A)   Permits for curb loading zones. The Chief of Police shall not
hereafter designate or sign any curb loading zones upon special request of any
person unless such person makes application for a permit for such zone and for
two signs to indicate the ends of each such zone. Said permit fee shall be as
set and designated by the Mayor and City Council.
   (B)   Permit for loading or unloading at an angle to the curb.
      (1)   The Chief of Police is authorized to issue special permits for the
backing of a vehicle to the curb for the purpose of loading or unloading
merchandise or materials subject to the terms and conditions of such permit.
Such permits may be issued either to the owner or lessee of real property or to
the owner of the vehicle.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any permittee or other person to violate
any of the special terms or conditions of any such permit.
§ 09-09-05 STANDING IN PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park a vehicle for any
purpose or period of time other than for the expeditious loading or unloading
of passengers in any place marked as a passenger loading zone during the hours
when the regulations applicable to such curb loading zone are effective and
then only for a period not to exceed three minutes.
§ 09-09-07 STANDING IN FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park a vehicle for any
purpose or length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery
or pickup and loading of materials in any place marked as a freight curb
loading zone during hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in
effect. In no case shall the stop for loading or unloading of materials exceed
30 minutes.
CHAPTER 11: BUSES, TAXICABS AND PUBLIC CARRIERS
Section
   
09-11-01   Public carrier stops and stands
   
09-11-03   Bus stops
   
09-11-05   Stopping, standing and parking of buses
§ 09-11-01 PUBLIC CARRIER STOPS AND STANDS.
   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized and required to establish bus
stops, bus stands, taxicab stands and stands for other passenger common carrier
motor vehicles on such public streets, in such places and in such manner as he
or she shall determine to be of the greatest benefit and convenience to the
public, and every such bus stop, bus stand, taxicab stand or other stands shall
be designated by appropriate signs.
§ 09-11-03 BUS STOPS.
   (A)   Designation. Authority is vested in the Chief of Police to designate
bus stops at such locations and in such manner and number as may be necessary
and of the greatest benefit and convenience to the public. Every such bus stop
shall be designated by appropriate signs.
   (B)   Restricted stopping of buses. The operator of a bus shall not stop
such bus at any place for the purpose of taking on or discharging other than at
a bus stop so designated except in case of emergency.
   (C)   Restricted use by other than buses.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park a
vehicle at any authorized bus stop so designated, or between the right curb and
any such stop, except that the operator of a passenger vehicle may temporarily
stop thereat for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the discharge or
the pickup of passengers then in readiness at the curb.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park a
vehicle other than a bus in a bus stand, except that the driver of a passenger
vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and while actually
engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not
interfere with any bus.
§ 09-11-05 STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING OF BUSES.
   (A)   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park such vehicle upon any
street at any place other than at a bus stand so designated.
   (B)   The operator of a bus shall not stop such vehicle upon any street at
any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their baggage
other than at a bus stop, bus stand or passenger loading zone so designated
except in case of an emergency.
   (C)   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop, bus stand or passenger
loading zone on a public street in such a manner that the bus, when stopped to
load or unload passengers or baggage, shall be in a position with the right
wheel of such vehicle not farther than 18 inches from the curb and the bus
approximately parallel to the curb so as not to impede unduly the movement of
other vehicular traffic.
CHAPTER 13: PARADES
Section
   
09-13-01   When permits required for parades
§ 09-13-01 WHEN PERMITS REQUIRED FOR PARADES.
   It shall be unlawful for any parade containing persons or vehicles to
occupy, march or proceed along any street except in accordance with a permit
issued by the Chief of Police and in compliance with such regulations as the
City Council may establish from time to time.
CHAPTER 15: USE OF STREETS, LOAD RESTRICTIONS
Section
   
09-15-01   Restrictions upon use of streets
   
09-15-03   Load restrictions on certain streets
   
09-15-05   Prohibition against uncovered loads
§ 09-15-01 RESTRICTIONS UPON USE OF STREETS.
   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to determine and designate those
heavily traveled streets upon which shall be prohibited the use of the roadway
by motor-driven cycles, bicycles, horse-drawn vehicles or other non-motorized
traffic and shall erect appropriate signs giving notice thereof. When signs are
so erected giving notice thereof, it shall be unlawful for any person to
disobey the restrictions stated on such signs.
§ 09-15-03 LOAD RESTRICTIONS ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   When signs are erected by authority of the Mayor and City Council giving
notice thereof, it shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle with
a gross weight in excess of the amounts so specified.
§ 09-15-05 PROHIBITION AGAINST UNCOVERED LOADS.
   (A)   No person shall drive or move any vehicle with any load on any public
roadway in the city unless such load is so covered, constructed or loaded as to
prevent any of its load from dropping, sifting, leaking or otherwise escaping
from the vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall operate any vehicle with any load on any public
roadway in the city unless the load and such covering is securely fastened to
prevent the covering or load from becoming loose, detached or in any manner a
hazard to other users of the public roadway.
   (C)   Any person operating a vehicle on any public roadway in the city from
which any materials have fallen or escaped, which would constitute an
obstruction or injure a vehicle or otherwise endanger travel upon such public
roadway shall immediately cause the public roadway to be cleaned of all such
materials and shall pay any costs therefor.
   (D)   Nothing in this section may be construed to prohibit a government
employee or contractor from dropping sand on a highway to enhance traction, or
sprinkling water or other substances to clean or maintain a highway.
   (E)   This section shall not apply to agricultural vehicles while being used
for agricultural purposes.
   (F)   A person who violates the provisions of this section shall be guilty
of an infraction and subject to a fine of $50. For each subsequent violation of
this section, the fine shall be increased by $25 but shall not exceed $100.
(Ord. 2761, passed 8-18-2008)
CHAPTER 17: BICYCLES
Section
   
09-17-01   Effect of regulations
   
09-17-03   Registration of bicycles
   
09-17-05   Application/registration
   
09-17-07   Registration issuance
   
09-17-09   Inspection
   
09-17-11   Transfer of ownership
   
09-17-13   Rental agencies
   
09-17-15   Traffic laws apply
   
09-17-17   Obedience to traffic control devices
   
09-17-19   Riding on bicycles
   
09-17-21   Speed
   
09-17-23   Emerging from alley or driveway
   
09-17-25   Clinging to vehicles
   
09-17-27   Carrying articles
   
09-17-29   Parking
   
09-17-31   Riding on sidewalks
   
09-17-33   Lamps and other equipment
   
09-17-35   Bicycle paths
§ 09-17-01 EFFECT OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required herein.
   (B)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a
bicycles is operated upon any public thoroughfare or public path set aside for
the exclusive use of bicycles.
§ 09-17-03 REGISTRATION OF BICYCLES.
   Every person residing in the municipality should register their bicycle with
the City Police Department. The purpose of registering bicycles is to afford
the Police Department tracing capability for lost, stolen or found bicycles.
(Ord. 1979, passed 3-15-1993)
§ 09-17-05 APPLICATION/REGISTRATION.
   The Police Department will furnish a form for registration. There is no fee
for registration.
(Ord. 1979, passed 3-15-1993)
§ 09-17-07 REGISTRATION ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receiving the registration information, it will be the
responsibility of police personnel to enter said information into the Police
Department’s in-house computer system in a timely manner. The registration is
effective for the life of the bicycle or until the bicycle’s ownership changes.
   (B)   The registration form will be provided by the Police Department and
will include ownership and bicycle description information.
   (C)   The registration form shall be done in duplicate, and the bicycle’s
owner will be provided with the copy for their own records.
(Ord. 1329, passed 5-20-1974; Ord. 1979, passed 3-15-1993)
§ 09-17-09 INSPECTION.
   At the request of the owner, any police officer can inspect the bicycle for
safety. However, it is the responsibility of the bicycle’s owner to keep the
bicycle in a safe mechanical condition.
(Ord. 1979, passed 3-15-1993)
§ 09-17-11 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP.
   Upon the sale or transfer of ownership of said bicycle, it shall be the
responsibility of the new owner to change the records information at the Police
Department.
(Ord. 1979, passed 3-15-1993)
§ 09-17-13 RENTAL AGENCIES.
   A rental agency shall not rent or offer for rent any bicycle that is not in
safe working order. Said agency shall maintain company records to identify all
bicycles under its control.
(Ord. 1979, passed 3-15-1993)
§ 09-17-15 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY.
   Every person riding a bicycle shall be granted all of the rights and shall
be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except
as those provisions of law which by their nature can have no application.
§ 09-17-17 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic control signs, signals and other control devices applicable to vehicles
unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Wherever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right, left
or U-turn is permitted, it shall be unlawful for any person operating a bicycle
to disobey the direction of such sign except where a person dismounts from the
bicycle to make such turn, in which event, such person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
§ 09-17-19 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
such.
   (C)   Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use such paths.
§ 09-17-21 SPEED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bicycle at a speed greater
than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing.
§ 09-17-23 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building
shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on said
sidewalk and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all
vehicles approaching on said roadway.
§ 09-17-25 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person riding upon any bicycle to attach the
same or himself or herself to any vehicle upon any public thoroughfare.
§ 09-17-27 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person operating a bicycle to carry any
package, bundle or article which prevents the rider from keeping at least one
hand upon the handle bars.
§ 09-17-29 PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a bicycle in such a manner as to
interfere or obstruct pedestrian traffic.
§ 09-17-31 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk
within the Business District.
   (B)   The Chief of Police is authorized to erect signs on any sidewalk or
roadway prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon, and when such signs are in
place, it shall be unlawful for any person to disobey the same.
§ 09-17-33 LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Every bicycle, when in use at nighttime, shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front and red reflector on the rear of a type which shall be
visible from all distances from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when directly
in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting
a red light from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be used in addition to
the red reflector.
   (B)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the brake wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
§ 09-17-35 BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized, upon approval of the City
Council, to establish bicycle paths within the city limits.
   (B)   In establishing said bicycle paths, the Chief of Police is authorized
to prohibit parking upon one side of any street and to mark said bicycle paths
and restricted parking areas with appropriate signs.
   (C)   Said restrictions on parking are hereby authorized upon all streets
and for all distances as may be designated by the Chief of Police and approved
by the City Council.
(Ord. 1338, passed 9-17-1974)
CHAPTER 19: ROADSIDE MEMORIALS
Section
   
09-19-01   Short title
   
09-19-03   Purpose
   
09-19-05   Authority
   
09-19-07   Definitions
   
09-19-09   Requirements
   
09-19-11   Appeals
   
09-19-13   Not applicable to state highways
§ 09-19-01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be referred to as the Caldwell Roadside
Memorial Ordinance.
(Ord. 2808, passed 11-2-2009)
§ 09-19-03 PURPOSE.
   Consistent with the purpose and spirit of Idaho Code § 49-1316 as pertains
to state highways, the purpose of this chapter is to provide for the
establishment and implementation of rules and regulations for roadside
memorials within the city and, to the extent permitted by law, in the area of
city impact of said city.
(Ord. 2808, passed 11-2-2009)
§ 09-19-05 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to Idaho Code Title 50, Chapter 3,
including, without limitation, Idaho Code §§ 50-301, 50-313 and 50-314.
(Ord. 2808, passed 11-2-2009)
§ 09-19-07 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ROADSIDE MEMORIAL. Refers to the following:
      (1)   MEMORIAL. Any object placed or erected at the site of a fatal
vehicle collision as a remembrance of persons who died as a result of that
collision.
      (2)   ROADSIDE. The area designated as right-of-way of any incorporated
street, road or highway within the city limits.
(Ord. 2808, passed 11-2-2009)
§ 09-19-09 REQUIREMENTS.
   Relatives or friends of a person or persons killed in a traffic accident
upon a city right-of-way may install, maintain or remove a memorial within the
city’s right-of-way, subject to the requirements and conditions set forth
below.
   (A)   Written approval from next of kin. Written approval from the
decedent’s next of kin, who are related by blood, marriage or adoption, unless
no such kin exists, must be obtained before the memorial is placed upon a city
right-of-way.
   (B)   Written approval from property owners. Written approval from all
adjacent property owners must be obtained before the memorial is placed upon a
city right-of-way.
   (C)   Two-year limitation. The memorial may remain in place for a period of
time not to exceed two years from the date of the traffic collision.
   (D)   Maintenance and removal. The erector of the monument must assure it
remains in good condition and does not become a hazard to motor vehicle or
pedestrian traffic. It is the responsibility of the erector to remove the
memorial at the end of the two-year period following the traffic accident it
was intended to memorialize. If the memorial remains upon a city right-of-way
more than two years following said traffic accident, it shall be deemed
abandoned. At such time, the city shall have the right, but not the obligation,
to remove the memorial and dispose of it, without regard to the rights or
desires of any party.
   (E)   Safety. Those participating in the installation, maintenance or
removal of the memorial shall park their vehicles as far as practical from the
travel lanes of the right-of-way where there is adequate sight distance on the
right-of-way in both directions. Participants should wear proper safety attire
and obey all safety procedures approved by the State Transportation Department
at the time of the activity. A high degree of safety must be maintained for the
traveling public and the participants during the installation, maintenance and
removal of the memorial.
   (F)   Rights of family. Immediate family members of a person or persons
killed in a traffic accident for which a memorial has been erected may remove
the memorial at any time.
   (G)   Size and location limitations. The memorial must be no more than 36
inches high, as measured from the ground level to the highest point, nor more
than 24 inches wide. The memorial must be erected as near as practical to the
site of the collision and as far as practical from the edge of the roadway and
as far from the roadway shoulder as city right-of-way width permits. Placement
of memorials in the median of any city right-of-way is prohibited. The person
installing the memorial shall be solely responsible for contacting a utility
locating service to identify the location of any utilities in the area prior to
placement of the memorial (see Idaho Code §§ 55-2201 through 55-2210).
   (H)   Shape and color. Memorials shall not be shaped or colored to portray,
resemble or conflict with any traffic control device. Memorials shall not be
reflectorized.
   (I)   Affixation and adornment. Memorials shall not be permanently affixed
to the surface of the city right-of-way. No items of adornment shall be placed
on or near a memorial.
   (J)   Memorials for other purposes not authorized. These provisions only
authorize roadside memorials erected in the memory of persons deceased as a
result of traffic collisions.
   (K)   City reserves right to remove memorial at any time. The city reserves
the right to remove any memorial placed upon city right-of-way at any time if
it determines the memorial to be a traffic hazard or otherwise pose a threat to
the health, safety and welfare of the users of the city right-of-way, if the
memorial does not comply with the provisions of this chapter, if the memorial
is in disrepair or is otherwise not properly maintained, if the memorial
remains in place longer than permitted herein or to facilitate road or utility
work or repairs at or near the site. Should a memorial need to be removed, the
city will make a reasonable effort to notify the family of the deceased person
or persons prior to removal.
(Ord. 2808, passed 11-2-2009)
§ 09-19-11 APPEALS.
   Any party aggrieved by a decision of the city with respect to the provisions
of this chapter may appeal that decision to the City Council by filing a notice
of appeal to the City Council with the City Clerk within 15 days following the
date upon which the decision was made. Any such appeal shall be processed as a
contested case pursuant to
Title 1, Chapter 5 of this code.
(Ord. 2808, passed 11-2-2009)
§ 09-19-13 NOT APPLICABLE TO STATE HIGHWAYS.
   The provisions of this chapter have no applicability to highways under the
jurisdiction of the State Transportation Department.
(Ord. 2808, passed 11-2-2009)
TITLE 10: ZONING REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 10: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
   
10-1      Zoning regulations
   
Appendix A:    Zoning regulations
§ 10-1 ZONING REGULATIONS.
   The following appendix comprises the city’s zoning regulations. The appendix
may be referred to as “zoning regulations,” “zoning ordinance,” “this
ordinance” and/or “this chapter.”
Editor’s note:
   The following appendix has been preserved in its original format. As a
result, there are style differences between this and other titles of this code.
APPENDIX A: ZONING REGULATIONS
   Article
      
1.   TITLE, PURPOSE AND ZONING DISTRICTS
      
2.   STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ALL ZONING DISTRICTS
      
3.   ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
      
4.   INDIVIDUAL MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME UNITS (REP. BY ORD. 2230, 5-4-1998)
      
5.   RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
      
6.   COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
      
7.   MANUFACTURING AND INDUSTRIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
      
8.   URBAN CORE ZONING DISTRICTS
      
9.   SPECIAL PURPOSE ZONING DISTRICTS
      
10.   TRANSPORTATION POLICIES AND PRACTICES (REP. BY ORD. 3668, 4-21-2025)
      
11.   OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICTS
      
12.   SPECIFIC USE PROVISIONS
      
13.   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
      
14.   MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
ARTICLE 1: TITLE, PURPOSE AND ZONING DISTRICTS
Section
   
10-01-01      Short Title And Applicability
   
10-01-02      Authority And Purpose
   
10-01-02-1   Duties Of The Commission / Hearing Examiner
   
10-01-02-2   Duties Of The Director
   
10-01-03      Zoning Districts Established
   
10-01-04      Overlay Districts Established
   
10-01-05      Official Zoning Maps And The Comprehensive Plan
   
10-01-06      Clarification Of Ambiguous Zoning District Boundaries
   
10-01-07      Comprehensive Plan And Zoning Ordinance Changes Upon Annexation
Of Unincorporated Area
   
10-01-08      Split Zoning
   
10-01-09      Alignment Of Zoning With Comprehensive Plan Land Use Designations
   
10-01-10      Definitions
10-01-01 SHORT TITLE AND APPLICABILITY:
   (1)   Short Title: This chapter shall be known and may be recited and
referred to as the CALDWELL ZONING ORDINANCE and all other ordinances and parts
of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed upon the effective date
of this chapter.
   (2)   Applicability: The regulations in this chapter shall apply and govern
development and the use of all properties within the corporate limits of the
City, in areas outside of City limits for which annexation has been requested;
or as otherwise permitted through written agreement(s) with Canyon County, or
by Idaho Code.
   (3)   Compliance Required:
      A.   No person or public agency shall construct, alter, move, or change
the use of a structure or undertake any development unless:
         1.   The proposed use, structure, or property complies with this
chapter; and
         2.   Any required approval is first obtained, as provided by this
chapter, and any applicable conditions of such approval are met.
      B.   Nothing in this chapter shall eliminate the need for obtaining any
other permit(s) required by this Code, other political subdivisions or agencies
of the State of Idaho.
      C.   The provisions of this chapter shall be in addition to, and shall
not be deemed to repeal, abrogate, or impair any other ordinance, regulation,
easement, covenant, or deed restriction.
      D.   Where this chapter imposes greater restrictions than those imposed
by other laws or ordinances, this chapter shall prevail.
      E.   All properties in the City corporate limits shall comply with the
regulations of this chapter unless otherwise preempted by federal statute or
local law.
   (4)   Conformity With Regulations; Land Uses. It shall be unlawful for any
land or premises to be used that is not in conformity with regulations herein
set forth for the zoning districts in which said land or premises are located.
   (5)   Conformity With Regulations; Buildings and Structures. It shall be
unlawful for any building or structure to be erected, structurally altered, or
be used that is not in conformity with the regulations herein set forth for the
zoning districts in which such building or structure is located. (Ord. 1451,
12-13-1977; amd. Ord. 3661, 4-21-2025)
10-01-02 AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
   (1)   Authority: This chapter is adopted pursuant to authority granted by
title 67, chapter 65 of the Idaho Code, and article 12, section 2 of the Idaho
constitution, as amended or subsequently codified.
   (2)   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish standards and
regulations to govern the use of land and structures in the City and for review
and approval of all proposed development of property in the City, and to
provide a development review process that will be comprehensive, consistent,
and efficient in the implementation of the Comprehensive Plan and any
applicable policies, master plans, or area plans. This chapter is specifically
intended to:
      A.   Carry out the intent and purposes of the “Local Land Use Planning
Act”, Idaho Code § 67-6501 et seq., as amended.
      B.   Conserve and promote the public health, safety and general welfare
of present and future residents.
      C.   Protect property rights and preserve and enhance property values.
      D.   Carry out the policies of the comprehensive plan by classifying and
regulating the uses of property and structures within the incorporated areas of
the City of Caldwell and planning for future growth and land use patterns
within the area of city impact and planning boundaries.
      E.   Establish districts within the City of Caldwell in accord with the
adopted comprehensive plan and in conformance with Idaho Code § 67-6511.
      F.   Ensure that the important environmental features of the state and
localities are protected and enhanced.
      G.   Aid in the harmonious, orderly, and progressive development of the
city while ensuring satisfactory interrelationships of residential, commercial,
industrial, agricultural, recreational, and open space areas of the city
through the regulation of land uses within each zoning district, bulk and
dimensional standards, landscaping and buffering, and conformance with the
city’s comprehensive plan;
      H.   Encourage urban and urban type development within incorporated
cities, by ensuring that land densities increase more as you get closer to the
center of the city and along major transportation corridors, with densities
decreasing as you get closer to the city’s planning boundary. This is
accomplished through conformance with the comprehensive plan and through the
regulation of land uses and densities based on zoning district.
      I.   Ensure the intensity of land uses are appropriate and any negative
impacts are mitigated.
      J.   Ensure the use of land and properties is in conformance with city
codes, policies, laws, and with the city’s comprehensive plan;
      K.   Provide standards for the orderly growth and development of the City
of Caldwell as required by Idaho Code § 67-6511, such standards include, but
are not limited to, those regulating:
         1.   The height, number of stories, massing and scaling, architectural
design, setbacks, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, and
location, placement and orientation of structures.
         2.   The required lot size, lot frontage, parking, pedestrian
amenities, site improvements, open space, landscaping, and site design of all
properties.
         3.   The use, intensity, and density of all structures, properties and
developments.
      L.   Secure safety from fire and provide adequate open spaces for light
and air.
      M.   Protect fish, wildlife and recreation resources.
      N.   Avoid undue water and air pollution.
      O.   Allow local school districts to participate in the community
planning and development process so as to address public school needs and
impacts on an ongoing basis.
      P.   Promote implementation of the comprehensive plan.
      Q.   Stabilize expectations regarding the future development of the city,
thereby providing a basis for wise decisions with respect to such development.
(Ord. 3661, 4-21-2025)
10-01-02-1 DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION / HEARING EXAMINER:
   (1)   Commission: For the purpose of this chapter, the commission shall have
the following duties:
      A.   Initiate proposed amendments to this chapter and conduct appropriate
reviews of this complete chapter.
      B.   Review proposed amendments to this chapter and make recommendations
to the council.
      C.   Review planned unit developments that are part of a preliminary
plat, preliminary plat requests, comprehensive plan changes, comprehensive plan
map changes, annexation and rezone requests and make recommendations to the
council.
      D.   Grant special use permits and planned unit development requests,
when said planned unit development requests are not part of a preliminary plat,
as specified, with such additional safeguards as will uphold the intent of this
chapter. Planned unit development requests as part of a preliminary plat
request are reviewed by the commission in conjunction with the preliminary plat
request and a recommendation to the Council is made by the commission for
planned unit development/preliminary plat request.
      E.   Hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error in any
order, requirement, decision, interpretation or determination made by the
Director.
      F.   Grant such variances from the terms of this chapter that will not
conflict with the public interest, be materially detrimental to the public
health, safety or welfare, or be injurious to the property or improvements of
adjacent property owners.
      G.   Review annexation requests and make recommendations to the council.
   (2)   Hearing Examiner: A hearing examiner may be appointed by the City
Council. Pursuant to Idaho Code section 67-6520, the hearing examiner shall
have the same authority as the Planning and Zoning Commission to hear requests
for special use permits, variances, subdivision plats, planned unit
developments, and rezones. The hearing examiner shall be a planner, engineer,
architect, or other professionally trained person and shall have significant
experience in the field of planning and zoning. The hearing examiner may be
dismissed by a majority vote of the City Council.
   (3)   Suspension of Duties: The City Council may elect at any time they deem
necessary, to suspend the authority and duties of the Planning and Zoning
Commission or hearing examiner, or act in full authority and exercise all of
the powers required and authorized by Title 67, Idaho Code, Chapter 65 in place
of the Planning and Zoning Commission or hearing examiner. (Ord. 3661, 4-21-
2025)
10-01-02-2 DUTIES OF THE DIRECTOR:
   (1)   The Council shall appoint a Director who shall be responsible for
enforcing and administering this chapter. The Director may be provided with the
assistance of such other persons as the Council may direct. For the purpose of
this chapter, the term “Director”, “Planning and Zoning Director” and
“Community Development Director” shall all mean the Director responsible for
enforcing and administering this chapter. The Director shall have the following
duties:
      A.   Interpret and administer this chapter. The Director shall have the
authority to order, in writing, the remedy of any condition found to be in
violation of this chapter or of any permit approved under the provisions of
this chapter. Any person aggrieved by a decision made by the Director in
interpreting or enforcing this chapter may appeal such decision to City
Council. Such appeal shall be heard following the public hearing requirements
set forth in subsection
10-03-12 of this article.
      B.   Assist the public and advise interested persons of zoning
provisions.
      C.   Notify the news media regarding matters of public interest.
      D.   Aid applicants in the preparation and expedition of required
applications.
      E.   Grant variances, as an administrative determination, of up to twenty
percent (20%) from any numerical standard of the following requirements:
structure height, front yard setback, rear yard setback, interior yard side
setback, street side yard setback, lot size, frontage requirement, and/or
parking space, so long as the following criteria is met:
         1.   Density is not increased from what was originally approved during
the public hearing process;
         2.   The request does not decrease any requirements or conditions that
were placed on the project by the governing body;
         3.   No specific deliberation took place during the public hearing on
the requested deviations;
         4.   All other provisions of this chapter and
chapter 11 are adhered to.
      F.   Assist the commission and Council in carrying out the provisions of
this chapter. (Ord. 1451, 12-13-1977; Ord. 2023, 2-22-1994; Ord. 3449, 9-15-
2022, eff. 10-1-2022; Ord. 3661, 4-21-2025)
10-01-03 ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
   (1)   Zoning Districts: For the purpose of this chapter, the incorporated
territory of the City of Caldwell, Idaho, is divided into the following base
zoning districts:
Residential Districts
RS-1 Semi-Rural Residential - 1
RS-2 Semi-Rural Residential - 2       See Section
R-1  Neighborhood Residential         Chapter 10, Article 5 for Residential
R-2  Community Residential            Zoning Districts
R-3  Urban Residential
Commercial Districts
C-1  Neighborhood Commercial
C-2  Community Commercial             See Section
C-3  General Commercial               Chapter 10, Article 6 for Residential
C-4  Service Commercial               Zoning Districts
H-C  Mixed Use / Regional Commercial
Manufacturing and Industrial Districts
M-1  General Industrial               See Section
M-2  Heavy Industrial                 Chapter 10, Article 7 for Residential
I-P  Industrial and Business Park     Zoning Districts

Urban Core Districts
D-CC Downtown City Center             See Section
D-CB Downtown Central Business        Chapter 10, Article 8 for Residential
T-N  Downtown Transition Neighborhood Zoning Districts

Special Purpose Districts
A-D  Airport District                 See Section
C-D  College District                 Chapter 10, Article 9 for Residential
H-D  Healthcare District              Zoning Districts
P-D  Public District
 
   (2)   District Boundaries: The boundaries of the zoning districts
established by this article shall be determined and defined by adoption of an
amendment to the official zoning map on which the zoning district boundaries
are illustrated as per section
10-01-05 of this section.
   (3)   Conformity With Regulations; Land Uses: Unless otherwise provided in
this chapter, land or premises shall be used in conformity with regulations
herein set forth for the zoning districts in which said land or premises are
located.
   (4)   Conformity With Regulations; Buildings And Structures: Unless
otherwise provided in this chapter, no building or structure shall be erected
or structurally altered or no building or structure shall be used except in
conformity with the regulations herein set forth for the zoning districts in
which such building or structure is located. (Ord. 3661, 4-21-2025)
10-01-04 OVERLAY DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
   (1)   For the purpose of this chapter, the incorporated territory of the
City of Caldwell, Idaho, the following overlay zoning districts have been
established.
Airport Impact Overlay Districts
APO-1 Airport Land Use Limitation Overlay
      Zone                                 See Chapter 10, Article 11, Section
APO-2 Airport Noise Abatement Overlay Zone 10-11-02.

Entertainment Overlay Districts
ED-1  Caldwell Event Center District       See Chapter 10, Article 11, Section
      Overlay Zone                         10-11-03.
Historic Overlay Districts
HD-1  Steunenberg Residential Historic
      Overlay Zone
HD-2  Downtown Local Historic District     See Chapter 10, Article 11, Section
      Overlay Zone                         10-11-04.
HD-3  North Caldwell Historic District
      Overlay Zone
Scenic Overlay Districts
SO-1  Indian Creek Corridor Overlay Zone   See Chapter 10, Article 11, Section
SO-2  Key Gateway & Corridor Overlay Zone  10-11-05.
SO-3  Boise River Corridor Overlay Zone
Environmentally Sensitive Overlay Districts
FP-1  Floodplain Overlay Zone              See Chapter 10, Article 11, Section
                                           10-11-06.
Special Development and Urban Design Overlay Districts
UD-1  Downtown Urban Design Overlay Zone
UD-2  River District Urban Design Overlay  See Chapter 10, Article 11, Section
      Zone                                 10-11-07.
UD-3  Neighborhood Character Urban Design
      Overly Zone
 
(Ord. 3661, 4-21-2025)
10-01-05 OFFICIAL ZONING MAPS AND THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
   (1)   The boundaries of zoning districts shall be established and clearly
indicated upon an official zoning map adopted as part of this chapter.
   (2)   All amendments to the official zoning map shall follow procedures set
forth in this chapter.
   (3)   Areas are to be classified according to the established zoning
districts and shall give due consideration to the need for conformity with the
adopted comprehensive plan and its stated goals and objectives.
   (4)   The boundaries of the F (floodplain) overlay zone shall be the special
flood hazard areas designated as zones A and AE by the federal emergency
management agency in its flood insurance study (FIS) for Canyon County, Idaho,
and incorporated areas, dated May 24, 2011, with accompanying flood insurance
rate maps (FIRM) or digital flood insurance rate maps (DFIRM), and other
supporting data, adopted by reference in subsection 12-15-05(2) of this code.
(Ord. 2875, 5-16-2011, eff. 5-24-2011)
10-01-06 CLARIFICATION OF AMBIGUOUS ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
   Where uncertainties exist as to the boundaries of any zoning district as
shown upon any zoning map or part thereof, the following rules shall apply:
   (1)   Where any such boundary line is indicated as following a street, alley
or public way, it shall be construed as following the centerline thereof.
   (2)   Where a boundary line is indicated as approximately following a lot
line, such lot line shall be construed to be the boundary.
   (3)   Where zoning district boundaries are indicated so that they are
approximately parallel to the centerlines of streets or highways, such
boundaries shall be construed as being parallel thereto and at such distance
therefrom as indicated on the official zoning map. If no distance is given,
such dimensions shall be determined by the use of the scale shown on the
official zoning map. (Ord. 1451, 12-13-1977; Ord. 1570, 8-19-1980)
   (4)   Floodplain overlay zone boundaries shall be interpreted as set forth
in section 12-15-05 of this code. (Ord. 2911, 9-4-2012)
10-01-07 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND ZONING ORDINANCE CHANGES UPON ANNEXATION OF
UNINCORPORATED AREA:
   Prior to annexation of an unincorporated area, the city council shall
receive a recommendation from the commission on the proposed comprehensive plan
map and zoning ordinance changes for the unincorporated area. The commission
and council shall follow the notice and hearing procedures provided in section
67-6509, Idaho Code, as well as the notice and hearing procedures provided in
article 3 of this chapter. Annexation ordinances are effective upon the date
noted in the applicable annexation ordinance. The official city comprehensive
plan maps and zoning maps, however, are only officially updated once per year
at the beginning of the calendar year to reflect any amendments from the
previous calendar year. (Ord. 2911, 9-4-2012)
10-01-08 SPLIT ZONING:
   (1)   The purpose of this section is to provide provisions for split zoning
of land, lots, parcels, or tracks.
      A.   Split zoning will not be permissible with any new annexation and/or
rezone requests, except as provided for in
10-01-08 E of this subsection.
      B.   The combining of land, lots, parcels, or tracks shall not result in
more than one (1) primary zoning classification on a single zoning lot.
      C.   Land, lots, parcels, or tracts combined in violation of this
ordinance shall be treated as separate zoning lots corresponding with the
boundaries of the different zoning classifications.
      D.   Where a zoning lot contains two (2) or more existing zoning
classifications, the zoning lot shall be subject to the following:
         1.   Most restrictive provisions shall apply. For existing and
proposed uses and structures, the more restrictive provisions of the primary
zoning districts, including but not limited to, use and building bulk
regulations, lot area, parking and loading, and yard requirements, shall apply
to the entire zoning lot. Rezoning shall be the means used to effectuate a
change to that portion of a lot/parcel zoned differently from the balance of
that lot/parcel where this regulation is deemed undesirable.
            (a)   Exception. Where one (1) zoning district occupies at least
seventy-five percent (75%) of the total lot area, the district regulations of
the district occupying the larger portion of the lot shall apply to the entire
zoning lot.
      E.   Split zoning shall be permissible for a subdivision plat so long as
the split zone is separated by legal lot lines. If the final plat is not
recorded and becomes expired and not renewed, the split zoning may revert to
the more stringent single zoning designation. (Ord. 3576, 3-19-2024; amd. Ord.
3661, 4-21-2025)
10-01-09 ALIGNMENT OF ZONING WITH COMPREHENSIVE PLAN LAND USE DESIGNATIONS:
   (1)   The Future Land Use Map (FLUM) identifies the vision for a portfolio
of land uses to implement the City’s many diverse goals and objectives and
works in conjunction with the text of the Comprehensive Plan, City Code and
various policies of the City. The FLUM is not a zoning map and differs in that
the FLUM describes the design character, growth strategies, health
intersections, and places types that are desired in the future and not
necessarily the zoning that is currently in place. The Comprehensive Plan
describes various future land uses within the future land use place types, and
contains a map geographically identifying land use patterns. Various types of
zoning and land use may be permitted within each of the place type
designations. Future land use place type designations are not parcel specific.
   (2)   If a parcel on the FLUM indicates more than one place type, the owner
may be required to subdivide the parcel at the time of development to ensure
that the zoning and land use remains consistent with the intent of the FLUM. If
the Director determines the parcel is of such a size that subdividing the
parcel would present development challenges, the Director may waive the
requirement to subdivide the parcel but will determine which single depicted
place type is most appropriate to accomplish the vision of the plan. (Ord.
3576, 3-19-2024; amd. Ord. 3661, 4-21-2025)
10-01-10 DEFINITIONS:
   For the purpose of this article, certain terms are defined as set forth
herein and shall be applicable to all articles within Chapter 10, Zoning
Regulations. All words in the present tense include the future tense. The
plural includes the singular, and all words in the singular include the plural
unless the nature of construction of the sentence indicates otherwise. The word
“shall”, “will” or “must” is always mandatory; the word “may” is permissive;
and the word “should” indicates that which is recommended but not required.
                 A building or structure detached from a principal building located on the
                 same lot and customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal
ACCESSORY        building or use and meets all criteria under section
BUILDING OR      10-12-03-1 of this chapter. Accessory buildings or structures shall not be
STRUCTURE:       used for dwelling purposes or human habitation, unless constructed as an
                 Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) as defined herein and in accordance with the
                 provisions of in this chapter. For accessory dwelling units, see Dwellings -
                 Accessory Dwelling Unit definition.
                 A use of land or of a building or portion thereof customarily additional,
                 incidental, supportive and/or subordinate to the principal use of the land
ACCESSORY USE:   or building and located on the same lot with the principal use and meets all
                 criteria under
                 Chapter 10, Article 12 for Accessory Uses.
                 An unobstructed way of specified width containing a drive or roadway which
ACCESSWAY:       provides vehicular access within a recreational vehicle park and connects to
                 a public street.
                 Any construction that increases the size of a building or structure in terms
ADDITION:        of site coverage, height, length, width, or gross floor area. An addition
                 shall meet all of the codes currently in place at the date of application
                 for the addition.
ADJACENT OR      To physically touch or border upon, or to share a common property line or
ABUTTING:        border. Adjacent or abutting shall include properties or uses that are
                 separated by a drive, street, or other public dedicated right-of-way.
                 A written notice and applicable fine to a responsible person, issued by the
ADMINISTRATIVE   citing official that a continued violation of this chapter, chapters
CITATION:        11,
                 12 and/or
                 13 of this code has occurred without being remedied.
ADMINISTRATIVE   Any decision made by the director of community development, or his or her
DECISION:        designee.
                 Adult business includes any adult bookstore, adult novelty store, adult
ADULT BUSINESS:  video store, adult motel or hotel, adult motion picture theater, adult
                 theater, and adult cabaret as defined below:
                 A commercial establishment which has as a significant or substantial portion
                 of its stock in trade, revenues, advertising, or maintains a substantial
                 section of its sales or display space for the sale or rental, for any form
ADULT BUSINESS - of consideration, of any one or more of the following (1) Books, magazines,
ADULT BOOKSTORE, periodicals or other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion pictures,
ADULT NOVELTY    videocassettes, compact discs, slides, or other visual representations which
STORE OR ADULT   are characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition or display of
VIDEO STORE:     specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas (2) Instruments,
                 devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for use or marketed primarily
                 for gratification of sexual desires of persons for whom it is intended to be
                 distributed to or to be seen by.
                 A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which offers
                 accommodations to the public for any form of consideration; provides patrons
                 with closed circuit television transmissions, films, motion pictures,
                 videocassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which are
ADULT BUSINESS - characterized by the exhibition or display of specified sexual activities or
ADULT MOTEL OR   specified anatomical areas ; and has a sign visible from the public right-
HOTEL:           of-way which advertises the availability of this adult type of photographic
                 reproductions; and either (1) Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period
                 of time that is less than ten hours; or (2) Allows a tenant or occupant of a
                 sleeping room to sub rent the room for a period of time that is less than
                 ten hours.
                 A commercial establishment where, for any form of consideration, films,
ADULT BUSINESS - motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar photographic
ADULT MOTION     reproductions are regularly shown which are characterized by the depiction
PICTURE THEATER: or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas
                 .
ADULT BUSINESS - A nightclub, bar, restaurant, theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar
ADULT THEATER /  commercial establishment which regularly features persons who appear
CABARET:         seminude; or live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
                 specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities .
AFFORDABLE       Deed-restricted housing for which the occupant(s) is/are paying no more than
HOUSING:         thirty percent (30%) of their income for gross housing costs, including
                 utilities.
                 Tilling of soil, horticulture, growing crops, raising livestock, dairying,
AGRICULTURE,     including all uses customarily accessory and incidental thereto; but
GENERAL:         excluding commercial feedlots, raising of swine for commercial use, raising
                 of poultry for commercial use, commercial dairies (as defined) and similar
                 intensive Agri-related uses.
                 The use of a site for the repair, maintenance, inspection, and service of
                 aircraft and their associated parts, components, and related equipment
AIRCRAFT REPAIR  required to maintain safe and reliable operation of the aircraft in
AND SERVICE:     compliance with regulatory standards. The use includes, but is not limited
                 to regular maintenance, inspections, repairs, overhauls, component
                 replacement, safety checks, detailed maintenance documentation, and systems
                 testing.
AIRPLANE/        A structure designed for the storage of aircraft or aircraft parts; may
HELICOPTER       include the repair, and/or construction and/or manufacturing of aircraft or
HANGER:          aircraft parts. The structure may also include an office, bathroom, or
                 temporary storage of airfreight as accessory uses.
                 A place where aircraft can land and take off, usually equipped with hangars,
AIRPORT:         facilities for refueling and repair, and various accommodations for
                 passengers and freight. For the purposes of this chapter, Airport regularly
                 refers to the Caldwell Executive Airport.
                 A perpetual easement that allows use of airspace above the property for
AIRPORT          operation of the airport or aircraft, waives claims that might be brought in
AVIGATION        connection with such operation, imposes height limits, and generally
EASEMENT:        protects the long-term viability of the airport from potentially
                 incompatible land uses.
AIRPORT          Airport Commission refers to the Caldwell Airport Commission.
COMMISSION:
                 The annexation, subdivision platting, or rezoning of real property, or new
AIRPORT          construction, special use permitting, or addition of more than two hundred
DEVELOPMENT:     (200) square feet of enclosed space to existing construction on real
                 property.
AIRPORT MANAGER: A city employee charged with responsibility for the day-to-day operations of
                 the Caldwell Executive Airport.
                 The most recently adopted version of the plan, specifications, proposed
AIRPORT MASTER   projects, mapping, and other studies for the airport compiled in compliance
PLAN:            with federal aviation administration regulations and adopted by the Caldwell
                 city council.
                 Those uses of real property identified and subject to
AIRPORT NOISE    Chapter 10, Article 11, Airport Overlay Zone, of this Chapter. Noise
SENSITIVE USES:  sensitive uses do not include accessory uses of real property where the
                 primary use on the property is not noise sensitive.
                 A surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the runway has a
                 specially prepared hard surface, the primary surface extends two hundred
                 feet (200') beyond each end of that runway. The width of the primary surface
AIRPORT RUNWAY   of a runway will be that width prescribed by the Federal Aviation
PRIMARY SURFACE: Administration regulations for the most precise approach existing or planned
                 for either end of that runway. The elevation of any point on the primary
                 surface is the same as the elevation of the nearest point on the runway
                 centerline.
                 An establishment that provides accommodation for aircraft passengers, crew
                 and freight and may include restaurants, gift shops, retail stores, barber/
AIRPORT          beauty shops, spa services, delicatessens, espresso shops, pastry shops, ice
TERMINAL:        cream shops, shoeshine stands, newspaper and magazine stands, car rental
                 agency booths, and other shops normally associated with an aviation
                 terminal.
ALCOHOL:         Beer, wine, spirits, or other alcoholic beverages.
ALLEY:           A public or private right-of-way primarily designed to serve as alternative
                 access to the side or rear of properties. Not a street.
                 Any change or rearrangement in the supporting members of an existing
                 building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, girders or interior
                 partitions, as well as any enlargement to or diminution of a building or
ALTERATION:      structure, whether horizontally or vertically, or the moving of a building
                 or structure from one location to another. Any change that affects the
                 configuration of exterior walls, exterior spaces or bulk of the building. An
                 alteration shall meet all codes currently in place at the date of
                 application for the alteration.
AMBULANCE        Provision of emergency medical care transportation, including incidental
SERVICE:         storage, maintenance, and parking of medical transport vehicles, as well as
                 living/sleeping quarters for ambulance personnel.
AMERICAN         A private nonprofit organization that administers and coordinates the U.S.
NATIONAL         voluntary standardization and conformity assessment system. The City of
STANDARDS        Caldwell relies upon this organization s standards for evaluating various
INSTITUTE        landscaping applications.
(ANSI):
                 A facility, either indoor or outdoor, where there are various devices for
                 entertainment, including rides, booths for the conduct of games or sale of
AMUSEMENT        items, as well as buildings for shows, entertainment, restaurants, and
CENTERS:         souvenir sales, and racetracks. Also, an area, either indoor or outdoor,
                 open to the public, that contains amusement parks, carnivals, coin operated
                 games, rides, shows, and similar entertainment facilities and devices.
ANNEX /          The process of adding land area into an existing incorporated community with
ANNEXATION:      a resulting change in the incorporated boundaries of that community.
ANIMAL OWNER/    A person eighteen (18) years of age or older or the parent or guardian of a
RESPONSIBLE      person under 18 years of age who owns, harbors, keeps an animal, has one in
PARTY:           his care, or permits an animal to remain on or about the premises owned or
                 controlled by him.
                 A facility used to house or contain stray, homeless, abandoned or unwanted
                 animals and that is owned, operated, or maintained by an organization
                 dedicated to animal protection, an established humane society, animal
ANIMAL SHELTER:  welfare society, or other nonprofit organizations devoted to the welfare,
                 protection, and humane treatment of animals. Animals are contained within
                 the facility for care, confinement, return to owner, adoption, or
                 euthanasia. This use shall be considered as equivalent to a large animal
                 clinic for purposes of regulation.
ANIMALS:         Any living creature that is not a human being.
ANTENNA:         Any exterior transmitting or receiving device mounted on a tower, building,
                 or structure and used in communications.
                 Any person, firm or corporation requesting approval of any land-use,
                 license, certification, development, permit, or other similar entitlement
APPLICANT:       regulated by the municipal code. Applicants include the owner of the
                 property subject to the request and any person designated by the owner to
                 represent the property owner s interest with responsibility for abiding by
                 the city's codes and development standards.
                 The cultivation, study, planting, pruning, watering, removal, and management
ARBORICULTURE:   of trees affecting their growth or maintenance; including the art of
                 planting, dressing, and managing trees and shrubs.
                 Services provided for trees, including, but not limited to planting,
ARBORIST:        removal, pruning, tree inventory, appraisals, tree management and
                 maintenance or engaging in technical arboricultural practices.
ARBORIST         A person with a valid contractor s license and arborist certification
LICENSEE:        acquired through the International Society of Arboriculture testing program
                 or other certification process acceptable to the City Forester.
                 Services provided for trees, including, but not limited to, planting,
ARBORIST         removal, topping, pruning, insect abatement or engaging in technical
SERVICE:         arboricultural practices. Any person providing arborist services in Caldwell
                 is subject to a licensing and certification process.
                 The means of dividing a structure s fa ade into distinct and significant
ARTICULATION:    parts through the use of windows, change in building materials, building fa
                 ade insets, artwork, etc. in order to add scale to a structure and break up
                 large expanses of unadorned walls.
ARTIST STUDIO/   The use of a site for the production, display and sale of individually
GALLERY:         crafted artwork including painting, sculpture, jewelry, pottery, leather
                 craft, stitchery, and photography.
ARTS AND CRAFTS  Events held either indoors or outdoors that showcase arts and crafts items
SHOWS:           for sale to the public.
ARTS,            The use of a site or facility for entertainment or recreational activities.
ENTERTAINMENT    The use includes, but is not limited to, indoor motion picture and
AND RECREATION   performing arts theaters, arcades, indoor miniature golf, indoor ice or
FACILITIES       skating rink, indoor rock climbing, recreational axe throwing, or bowling.
(INDOOR):        This definition does not include indoor shooting ranges and amusement
                 centers.
ARTS,            The use of a site or facility for entertainment, spectator sports or
ENTERTAINMENT    recreational activities. The use includes, but is not limited to, outdoor
AND RECREATION   motion picture theaters, amphitheaters, sports fields, golf courses, outdoor
FACILITIES       miniature golf. This definition does not include amusement centers and zoos.
(OUTDOOR):
                 A building or place where objects of art, furniture, and other goods are
                 offered for sale to people who bid on the object in competition with each
AUCTION HOUSE:   other. Includes the use of a site for the public sale of goods, wares,
                 merchandise, or equipment to the highest bidder, excluding the sale of
                 livestock or motor vehicles.
                 An establishment that provides passenger vehicle and motorcycle collision
AUTOMOTIVE -     service, repair, and painting. May also include the use of the site for
BODY SHOP:       custom body and paint work not associated with collision repair. It shall be
                 unlawful for any vehicle associated with a body shop to have vehicles
                 parked, standing, or stored within the public right-of-way.
                 Any building or premises used for washing passenger vehicles which may use
AUTOMOTIVE - CAR production line methods with a conveyor, blower, or other mechanical device
WASH:            and that may employ some hand labor. The facility may or may not include
                 vacuums and drying areas as accessory uses and may or may not include car
                 detailing.
                 A lot or parcel used for the rental of vehicles, motor homes, recreational
AUTOMOTIVE -     vehicles, or motorcycles. A building containing offices may be included as
RENTAL LOT:      part of the business. All vehicles, motor homes, recreational vehicles and/
                 or motorcycles held on the rental lot shall be in operating condition.
                 A lot or parcel used for the repair of all types of vehicles, to include,
                 but not limited to, motor homes, recreational vehicles, or motorcycles. All
                 repair work shall be conducted within an enclosed building and no vehicle of
AUTOMOTIVE -     any type shall be stored outside of an enclosed building for more than
REPAIR SERVICES: thirty (30) days. It shall be unlawful for any vehicle associated with an
                 automotive repair service use to have vehicles parked, standing, or stored
                 within the public right-of-way, except for employees lawfully parked in the
                 right-of-way. All operations associated with the automotive service use must
                 take place on private property.
                 The use of fully enclosed buildings in which four (4) or more vehicles are
AUTOMOTIVE -     stored more than thirty (30) days. Vehicles may or may not be in operating
STORAGE, INDOOR  condition. It shall be unlawful for any vehicle associated with an indoor
ONLY:            automotive storage use to have vehicles parked, standing, or stored within
                 the public right of way, except for employees lawfully parked in the right
                 of way. This definition excludes residential garages.
                 Any use of premises, excluding fully enclosed buildings, on which four (4)
                 or more vehicles are standing more than thirty (30) days. Vehicles shall be
                 in operating condition and currently registered. It shall be unlawful for
                 any vehicle associated with an outdoor automotive storage use to have
AUTOMOTIVE -     vehicles parked, standing, or stored within the public right of way, except
STORAGE,         for employees lawfully parked in the right of way. All operations associated
OUTDOOR:         with the automotive storage use must take place on private property. This
                 definition does not apply to those businesses that meet the definition of
                 new or used automotive sales, automotive tow yard, nor for the storage of
                 personal vehicles associated with a single-family residence, stored outside
                 the view of the public right-of-way.
                 A business or facility that tows operable or inoperable vehicles to its
                 site, where they may be stored for thirty (30) days or more, or to another
                 site. Not a wrecking/salvage yard, but rather for storage only. No
AUTOMOTIVE - TOW dismantling, wrecking, repairing, bodywork, salvaging or similar may take
YARD:            place; only storage of operable or inoperable vehicles after being towed. It
                 shall be unlawful for any vehicle associated with an automotive tow yard to
                 have vehicles parked, standing, or stored within the public right-of-way,
                 except for employees lawfully parked in the right-of-way. All operations
                 associated with the automotive tow yard must take place on private property.
BAIL BOND USE:   Any use or business, whether primary or ancillary, that provides bail and/or
                 bail bonds as defined pursuant to chapter 29, title 19, Idaho Code.
                 An appliance intended and approved for the commercial preparation of food
                 using solid fuel or gas fuel, said prepared food to be sold. Solid fuels
BARBECUE GRILL/  could include wood, charcoal, or similar products. Gas fuel appliances would
RANGE:           use propane or natural gas. Required safety precautions could include hoods,
                 ducting, exhaust fans, grease extractors, fire extinguisher(s) and/or fire
                 extinguishing systems or any combination thereof.
                 A medium sized solid material made by cutting, or chipping, larger pieces of
BARK/WOOD CHIPS: wood and/or bark. All bark/wood chips must be a minimum size of two inches
                 (2").
BERM:            An earthen mound designed to create aesthetic interest, highlight a focal
                 point, screen undesirable views, and/or serve as a barrier to noise.
                 An undulating berm is a landscaping feature that has a wavy or varied shape.
BERM -           The gentle slopes and undulating forms of the berms create dynamic focal
UNDULATING:      points, breaking up the monotony of a flat landscape and adding depth and
                 dimension to your landscaped space. Undulating berms are also utilized to
                 screen unsightly views or act as natural barriers.
                 Land in proximity to the Boise River as it flows through Caldwell. The
BOISE RIVER      corridor extends outward a distance of one hundred fifty feet (150') from
CORRIDOR:        the bank s high-water mark. Landscaping plans for projects within this
                 corridor are subject to landscape plan design review.
BOULDER AND ROCK A rock possessing an overall surface area greater than one square foot.
SLAB:            These large rocks are not considered hardscape materials and may be used for
                 landscape purposes.
                 A facility that manufactures up more than five thousand (5,000) barrels of
BREWERY - LARGE  fermented malt beverages per year on premises for either on or off premises
SCALE:           retail sale or consumption, and where food may be prepared, served, and/or
                 consumed.
                 A facility that manufactures up to five thousand (5,000) barrels of
BREWERY - SMALL  fermented malt beverages per year on premises for either on or off premises
SCALE:           retail sale or consumption, and where food may be prepared, served, and/or
                 consumed. Small scale breweries are also known as microbreweries.
                 A combination of physical space and vertical elements, including, but not
                 limited to, open spaces, landscaped areas, trees, shrubs, berms, fences,
BUFFER:          walls or any combination thereof, used to physically separate and/or screen
                 one use or property from another or physically separate and screen
                 properties from a public street, to visually shield or block noise, lights,
                 or other nuisances.
                 Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and intended for
BUILDING:        the shelter, housing, or enclosure of any individual, animal, process,
                 equipment, goods, or materials of any kind.
BUILDING FORM:   The shape and structure of a building as distinguished from its substance or
                 material.
                 The vertical distance from the finished grade adjacent to the structure to
                 the highest point of the coping on a flat roof, or to the peak of a mansard,
BUILDING HEIGHT: pitch, or hip roof. Building height does not include architectural elements,
                 such as roof stair access enclosures/projections, cupolas, chimneys,
                 steeples, spires, nor antennas.
BUILDING         Materials that are used in the construction of buildings, houses and other
MATERIALS:       structures. This includes but is not limited to traditional materials such
                 as wood, concrete, brick, stone, steel, or stucco.
BUILDING PERMIT: An official document or certificate by that name issued by the city
                 authorizing the construction or siting of any building.
                 The size and bulk of a building relative to the prevalent scale in other
                 buildings in the surrounding neighborhood, and environs, adjacent streets,
                 and pedestrians. The scale and massing can be categorized into two (2)
BUILDING SCALE   groups; House scale buildings which are those that match the size of a
AND MASSING:     typical house, in terms of form, height, building footprint, and
                 architectural details; and Block scale buildings which are those that are
                 individually as large as a block, or most of the block; or when arranged
                 together along a street, appear as long as most or all of a block.
BUILDING WALL/   Building walls or facades located parallel to or facing the street frontage
FACADE; PRIMARY: in which the building is addressed.
BUILDING WALL/   Building walls or facades located parallel to or facing a street frontage in
FACADE;          which the building is not addressed.
SECONDARY:
BULK AND         Standards and controls that establish the maximum size of buildings and
DIMENSIONAL      structures on a lot and the buildable area within which the building can be
STANDARDS:       located, including lot size, lot coverage, setbacks, height, impervious
                 surface ratio, floor area ratio and yard requirements.
                 A license issued by planning and zoning signifying a business is an allowed
BUSINESS         land use and/or legal nonconforming land use in the zoning district in which
LICENSE:         the business is located and the use has met compliance with all building and
                 fire codes. Previously referred to as Business Permit.
CALIPER:         The diameter of a tree measured at a point twelve (12) inches above the
                 ground or top of root ball.
                 A roofed structure providing space for the parking of automobiles and
CARPORT:         enclosed on not more than two (2) sides (side does not include or mean the
                 roof), either attached to or detached from the principal building. May or
                 may not be portable.
CEMETERY:        Property used for the interment of human remains or cremated remains. The
                 use includes burial parks or mausoleum for vault or crypt interments.
                 A document which must be obtained from the Caldwell Historic Preservation
                 Commission, or the Caldwell city council through an appeal process, before
CERTIFICATE OF   any new buildings, improvements or structures are erected, altered, restored
APPROPRIATENESS: or moved or demolished on a historic property or a historic site or within a
                 historic district or a property eligible for listing in the national
                 register of historic places or a property listed in the national register of
                 historic places.
CERTIFICATE OF   Official certificate issued by planning and zoning that confirms a property
ZONING           s compliance with the applicable city development regulations, codes and
COMPLIANCE:      policies related to planning and zoning requirements. Not applicable to
                 internal or city projects.
CERTIFICATE OF   See section
OCCUPANCY:       12-01-17 of this code.
CHANGE OF USE:   A change from one land use to another land use, within a certain zoning
                 district.
                 An establishment that by design and construction is primarily intended for
                 conducting organized religious services, meetings, and associated activities
CHURCH OR PLACES and that is recognized as a religious corporation or society of the state of
OF RELIGIOUS     Idaho with a state tax exempt status in accord with Idaho Code section 63-
WORSHIP:         602B. A church or place of religious worship may also include special
                 purpose buildings that are architecturally designed and particularly adapted
                 for secular activities and events. Accessory uses to a Church may include a
                 food bank, preschool/daycare, or similar uses.
CITING OFFICIAL: Any planning and zoning staff members.
CITY:            The City of Caldwell.
                 The city of Caldwell city code, as adopted by the City Council. In addition,
                 for purposes of this chapter, city code when referenced herein includes all
CITY CODE:       ordinances, policies, resolutions, standards, manuals, rules, and
                 regulations as amended, revised, and compiled and adopted by council and
                 shall be, and the same hereby are, adopted and incorporated by reference
                 herein.
CITY COUNCIL/    The legislative body of the City of Caldwell, Idaho.
COUNCIL:
CITY FORESTER:   The city forester or the city forester s designee.
CLINIC /         Any building or portion thereof or business establishment designed or used
HOSPITAL - LARGE for the care or administration of veterinary services for any agricultural
ANIMAL:          or exotic animals. This use can also include veterinarian uses.
                 Any building, or portion thereof, or business establishment designed or used
CLINIC /         for the care or administration of veterinary services for any of the
HOSPITAL - SMALL following animals: dogs, cats, primates, birds, waterfowl, reptiles, rodents
ANIMAL:          and similar animals, domestic pet animals on an outpatient basis. This use
                 can also include small animal grooming businesses or veterinarian uses.
                 A building and related facilities owned or operated by a corporation, local
                 chapter, or association established for the fraternal, social, religious,
CLUB OR LODGE:   educational, recreational, or cultural enrichment of its members and not
                 primarily for profit and whose members pay dues and meet certain prescribed
                 qualifications for membership.
                 A residential cluster development, or open space development, is the
CLUSTER          grouping of residential properties on a development site or subdivision to
DEVELOPMENT:     use the extra land as open space, recreation, agriculture, or the
                 preservation of environmentally sensitive locations.
                 The use of a single tower to support more than one wireless
COLLOCATION:     telecommunication service provider s equipment, or the mounting of an
                 antenna on a preexisting structure.
COMMERCIAL       An establishment with dairy cows used to produce milk to be sold for
DAIRY:           commercial gain, rather than to be used for personal use.
COMMERCIAL       An establishment in which more than three (3) dogs or other domesticated
KENNEL:          animals are regularly and routinely housed, groomed, bred, boarded, trained,
                 and/or sold, all for a fee for compensation.
COMMISSION:      The City of Caldwell Planning and Zoning Commission. This may also include
                 the City of Caldwell Hearing Examiner.
                 A lot separate from individual buildable lots, owned in common, generally
COMMON LOT:      provided for the shared use of property owners or tenants and is maintained
                 by the controller or a homeowners or business owners association.
                 A building or group of rooms designed and used as an integral part of a
                 residential project by the tenants of such a project for a place of meeting,
                 recreation or social activity and under the management and unified control
COMMUNITY CENTER of the operators of the project. A private community center may also be a
- PRIVATE:       facility, operated by a not-for-profit entity, that is not part of a
                 residential project, but is used as a place of meeting, recreation, or
                 social activity. Such facility shall not create noise, odor or similar
                 conditions perceptible beyond the bounding property line of the project
                 site.
COMMUNITY CENTER A building and grounds owned and operated by a governmental body for the
- PUBLIC:        social, recreational, health or welfare of the surrounding community.
                 The features that define the built and natural environment within the
COMMUNITY        community that help to create its character. These include historic
CHARACTER:       buildings, natural stream corridors, residential neighborhoods of different
                 types, building density and orientation (auto- or pedestrian-oriented), and
                 the scale and quantity of signage.
COMMUNITY        A private or public facility for the cultivation of fruits, vegetables,
GARDEN:          flowers and ornamental plants by more than one person.
                 Original works of art in any artistic medium (bronze, stone, paint, etc.)
                 for temporary or permanent placement in outdoor or indoor settings. Public
                 art is accessible to all members of the public and it aims to enrich the
                 community by evoking meaning in the public realm. Art can take a variety of
COMMUNITY        forms, including as an aesthetic element to a functional public work, to
(PUBLIC) WORKS   include, but not be limited to architectural design features (embedded
OF ART:          relief sculptures), landscape features, streetscape design features
                 (benches, artist gardens), site specific monumental works (sculptures),
                 community enhancement projects (artistic designed/painted sewer covers,
                 embedded logos within the streets). Such artworks can include water elements
                 and walkways. Permits are required for all community public works of art.
                 Animals that do not have specific disability related training but are
COMPANION        necessary in coping with a disability (for instance, if the animal provides
ANIMAL:          emotional support to a person with disabilities) as attested to in writing,
                 and signed, by a currently licensed psychiatrist, psychologist, mental
                 therapist, mental counselor or similar.
                 A long-range development plan of the city that serves as a guide for future
                 growth, including a general land use map, which integrates all functions,
COMPREHENSIVE    natural systems and activities relating to the use of land, which is
PLAN:            required by Idaho State Statue (67-6508). The comprehensive plan is the City
                 of Caldwell comprehensive plan officially adopted by the Caldwell City
                 Council.
                 A property or structure containing individual units or buildings available
                 for sale in fee simple subject to covenants and restrictions placing control
                 of the common areas/common lots to an elected board and platted as a
                 condominium plat as per the specifications of city code as defined herein.
CONDOMINIUM:     Condominium projects shall follow the procedures outlined in
                 Chapter 11: Subdivision Regulations for condo plats. Residential Condominium
                 developments shall be subject to the requirements for multi-family
                 development found in
                 Chapter 10, Article 14.
CONFERENCE /     A facility used for conventions, conferences, seminars, meetings, product
CONVENTION       displays, recreation activities, and entertainment functions along with the
CENTER:          accessory functions including temporary displays, food and beverage
                 preparation and service for on premises consumption.
                 Plantings that provide year-round greenery and screening because they retain
                 their leaves year-round. They serve as excellent wildlife shelters.
CONIFERS:        Normally, they are not pruned and will need large growing areas away from
                 buildings, sidewalks, and driveways. Spacing varies with species. Conifers/
                 evergreens are not planted in the parkways and planting strips.
                 Conservation development is a flexible way to accommodate growth while
                 avoiding impacts to the environment and community character. It is a type of
                 cluster development that uses an objective site design process to identify
CONSERVATION     the areas that are most important to protect from development. Conservation
DEVELOPMENT      development requires the use of a dedicated and recorded conservation area
AREA:            to protect a minimum of forty (40) percent of the overall acreage of land.
                 The conservation area may allow natural environment preservation or
                 continued agricultural production, but ensures the area remains open and
                 protected.
CONTRACTOR S     A building used by a construction, hauling, excavation, demolition, or
SHOP WITH        similar type contractors to conduct business, and including an area of land
STORAGE YARD:    used for the storage of materials, equipment, tools, products and vehicles
                 incidental and accessory to the primary use.
                 Every person or association (owner, agent, tenant, occupant, contractor,
                 developer and/or lessee) who exercises care, custody, and control of real
                 property, to include abutting a right-of-way upon which a public tree or
                 shrub is located. As applied to the subdivision or development process, the
CONTROLLER:      controller is understood to be the property owner, association or person
                 representing the property owner s interest with responsibility for abiding
                 by the city s standards, rules, regulations, policies, codes and ordinances.
                 A person or entity who is applying to the city for a license, certification,
                 or permit.
                 A publicly or privately operated facility housing persons awaiting trial or
CORRECTIONAL /   persons serving a sentence imposed by a court of law. This includes any
DETENTION        city, county, city and county, or regional jail, camp, court holding
FACILITY:        facility or other correctional facility, whether publicly or privately
                 operated.
                 Cottage industries are small-scale businesses that are incidental and
                 subordinate to a parcel containing a dwelling occupied as a principal
                 residence of the owner or operator of the cottage industry, where good are
COTTAGE          produced, usually by hand, in a small-scale setting. This may include, but
INDUSTRIES:      is not limited to small-scale food producers, artisanal furniture makers,
                 production of handmade kitchenware, candle and soap makers, jewelry
                 production, blankets, rugs, and home d cor items. This differs from a home
                 occupation as goods and commodities may be sold from the parcel.
CREMATORIUM:     Establishment that performs cremation services.
CRITICAL ROOT    The area under a tree extending from the base of a tree in all directions to
ZONE:            an imaginary line ten feet (10') outside of the dripline or as determined at
                 a preliminary site inspection by the City Forester.
CROSS-ACCESS     A cross-access easement is an agreement that is recorded against the subject
EASEMENT:        properties that allows for the free movement of vehicles and pedestrians
                 across the property lines of adjacent lots
                 An establishment where people regularly congregate primarily for
                 entertainment purposes in the form of dancing or live or recorded music and
                 where a cover charge/entry fee is typically required. The establishment may
DANCE HALL/NIGHT have one or more temporary or permanent area(s) set aside for the purpose of
CLUB:            dancing by the patrons of the establishment and may also serve food as an
                 accessory use to the establishment. Alcoholic beverages may be served
                 provided the appropriate liquor or alcohol license has been obtained for the
                 event.
DAYCARE /        A place or facility providing daycare or preschool education for
PRESCHOOL        compensation for thirteen (13) or more children who are less than thirteen
(CENTER):        (13) years of age, regardless of relation. The provider's own children count
                 toward the allowed number.
DAYCARE /        A home, place, or facility providing daycare or preschool education for
PRESCHOOL (IN-   compensation for twelve (12) or fewer children who are less than thirteen
HOME / FAMILY/   (13) years of age, regardless of relation. The provider's own children count
GROUP):          toward the allowed number.
DECIDUOUS:       Trees that shed their leaves annually as opposed to those that retain their
                 leaves year-round.
                 A density increase over the otherwise maximum allowable residential density
DENSITY BONUS:   under the zoning ordinance and land use element of the comprehensive plan as
                 of the date of a complete application to the city.
                 A local incentive program that provides specific criteria and desired policy
DENSITY BONUS    goals that must be met to offer developments an increase in density over the
PROGRAM:         otherwise maximum allowable residential density under the zoning ordinance
                 and land use element of the comprehensive plan.
                 The ratio of the total number of dwelling units within a development divided
DENSITY, GROSS:  by the total area (in acres), including public right-of-way, future right-
                 of-way, common lots, and open space.
                 The ratio of the total number of dwelling units within a development divided
DENSITY, NET:    by the total area (in acres), excluding public right-of-way dedication,
                 public streets, alleys, waterways, and common areas.
                 Any construction or renovation of a building or structure; any material
                 change in the use or appearance of a building or structure or in the land
                 itself; any division of land into parcels; any change in the intensity or
DEVELOPMENT:     use of land; and any project or use of land, regardless of zone, that would
                 require a certificate of compliance, certificate of occupancy, special use
                 permit, subdivision plat, planned unit development, or other discretionary
                 entitlement application.
DEVELOPMENT      Any written authorization from a governmental entity which authorizes the
APPROVAL:        commencement of a development.
DEVELOPMENT      A requirement or condition attached to a development approval or other
CONDITION /      governmental action approving or authorizing a particular development, which
REQUIREMENT:     development requirement compels the payment, dedication or contribution of
                 goods, services, land and/or money as a condition of approval.
                 For the purposes of this chapter, the word "Director," "Planning and Zoning
                 Director" and "Community Development Director" all refer to the appointed
DIRECTOR:        official responsible for managing, directing and overseeing the operations
                 of city planning and zoning, and responsible for enforcing and administering
                 this chapter. These terms are interchangeable.
DISEASED TREE:   A tree or part thereof that has become blighted, defaced, or has become
                 significantly diseased.
DISTILLERY -     A facility that produces up to more than ten thousand (10,000) gallons of
LARGE SCALE:     beverage grade spirit alcohol.
DISTILLERY -     A facility that produces up to ten thousand (10,000) gallons of beverage
SMALL SCALE:     grade spirit alcohol in relatively small quantities, usually done in single
                 batches.
                 A portion of the City within which certain uses of land and certain
                 structures and buildings are permitted or prohibited and within which
DISTRICT:        certain yards and other open spaces are required, and certain height limits
                 are established for buildings, all as set forth and specified in this
                 ordinance.
DOMESTICATED     Any of various animals that have been tamed and made fit for a human
ANIMALS:         environment.
                 A donation container used for the purpose of collecting donated materials
                 and items from the public. Donation containers shall be accessory to a
DONATION         legally permitted primary commercial land use as specified within the land
CONTAINERS /     use schedules within this chapter. Storage pods or similar containers may be
STORAGE PODS:    used for the temporary storage of items on residential, commercial, or
                 industrial zoned property in accordance with the temporary use provisions as
                 specified in
                 Chapter 10, Article 12.
                 A residence hall providing rooms for individuals or groups usually without
DORMITORY:       private baths; used as group living quarters for a student body or religious
                 order as an accessory use to a college, university, boarding school,
                 airport, convent, monastery, or similar institutional use.
                 The use of a site primarily for the sale or dispensing of liquor by the
                 drink or glass, but not including restaurants serving liquor, beer and/or
                 wine where the principal business is serving food. The use includes, but is
                 not limited to, bars, cocktail lounges, saloons, and taverns. Live
DRINKING         entertainment and similar forms of entertainment (stand-up comedy, trivia
ESTABLISHMENT -  nights, live music, etc.) may be an accessory to the drinking establishment
LIQUOR:          unless specifically prohibited by this Chapter. This use does not include
                 breweries, wineries or wine tasting establishments.
                 Although distilleries are included as a drinking establishment, they are
                 defined as a separate land use for the purpose of establishing the zone in
                 which they are permitted or specially permitted. See also definition of
                 Event Center.
                 A boundary of the soil surface delineated by the branch spread of a single
DRIP LINE:       plant or a group of plants. Extending from the trunk out to the widest tip
                 of the tree canopy.
                 A private roadway providing access to a street or highway. Driveways are not
DRIVEWAY:        considered public streets, roads, or highways. A driveway serving multiple
                 private lots/units (referred to as a common driveway) shall serve no more
                 than six (6) residential units.
DRIVEWAY WIDTH:  The narrowest width of driveway measured perpendicular to the driveway.
                 An area of land, structural surface, building, or structure with one or more
DRONE -          designated drone staging areas for use by unmanned aircraft, including but
COMMERCIAL       limited to those defined under Drone - Commercial Delivery Hub (Small), to
DELIVERY HUB     distribute commercial goods by air. This includes any appurtenant areas used
(LARGE):         or intended for use for unmanned aircraft system buildings, structures, and
                 other facilities.
                 An area of land, structural surface, building, or structure with one or more
DRONE -          designated drone staging areas for use by small, unmanned aircraft systems
COMMERCIAL       (sUAS) under 55 pounds total take-off weight or as defined in Section 44801
DELIVERY HUB     of Title 49, United States Code, as amended, whichever is lesser, to
(SMALL):         distribute commercial goods by air. This includes any appurtenant areas used
                 or intended for use for unmanned aircraft system buildings, structures, and
                 other facilities.
                 A designated area over which an unmanned aircraft completes the final phase
DRONE - STAGING  of the approach, to a hover or a landing, and from which an unmanned
AREA:            aircraft initiates take-off. The drone staging area includes both the launch
                 pads and any required safety areas and may include areas for outdoor storage
                 of goods and materials if properly screened.
DRY LANDSCAPING: The use of a combination of various types of hardscapes, boulders, rock
                 slabs and/or vegetation requiring very minimal or no irrigation.
                 Secondary dwelling unit on the same lot as the principal single-family
                 dwelling, that includes its own independent living facilities with
DWELLING -       provisions for sleeping, cooking, and sanitation and its own separate
ACCESSORY        exterior entrance from the principal residence and/or an entrance to an
DWELLING UNIT    internal common area accessible to the outside. The ADU may be attached or
(ADU):           detached; if detached, the ADU shall comply with the location requirements
                 outlined in
                 Chapter 10, Article 12.
                 Living quarters for persons employed on the premises, as a separate domicile
DWELLING -       and with no separate utility meters. Such facilities may be located in the
CARETAKER:       main structure or in an accessory building located on the lot with a main
                 residential structure.
DWELLING -       Small scale (1 to 2 story) detached structures arranged around a shared open
COTTAGE COURTS / space / courtyard, with unit entrances off the shared open space or
HOUSING:         courtyard. It may include carriage houses, which are dwelling units above an
                 enclosed garage.
                 The use of property as a group residence in which eight (8) or fewer
                 unrelated persons with disabilities or elderly persons reside and who are
                 supervised at the group residence in connection with their disability or
                 age-related infirmity. Resident staff, if employed, need not be related to
                 each other or to any of the persons with disabilities or elderly persons
                 residing in the group residence. No more than two (2) of such staff shall
                 reside in the dwelling at any one time. This use may also include all
                 voluntary communal living facilities that are not a homeless shelter or
                 other facility defined herein. In accordance with Title 67, Chapter 65,
                 Idaho Code (1) The department of health and welfare may require group
                 residences, as herein defined, to be licensed and set minimum standards for
                 providing services or operation. Such licensure may be under the residential
DWELLING - GROUP or assisted living facility rules, or under the intermediate care facilities
HOME / RESIDENCE for people with intellectual disabilities or related conditions rules, or
(8 OR <          under rules specifically written for such group residences, (2) No special
RESIDENTS):      use permit, zoning variance, or other zoning clearance shall be required of
                 a group residence, as herein defined, which is not required of a single-
                 family dwelling in the same zone, (3) No local ordinances or local
                 restrictions shall be applied to or required for a group residence, as
                 herein defined, and (4) The limitations provided for in subsection (B) and
                 (C) of this definition, shall not apply to tenancy or planned tenancy in a
                 group home or residence by persons who are under the supervision of the
                 state board of correction pursuant to section 20-219, Idaho Code, or who are
                 required to register pursuant to chapter 83 or 84, title 18, Idaho Code, or
                 whose tenancy would otherwise constitute a direct threat to the health or
                 safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would result in substantial
                 physical damage to the property of others (see definition of Transitional
                 Homes).
                 The use of property as a group residence in which nine (9) or more unrelated
                 persons with disabilities or elderly persons reside and who are supervised
                 at the group residence in connection with their disability or age-related
                 infirmity. Resident staff, if employed, need not be related to each other or
                 to any of the persons with disabilities or elderly persons residing in the
                 group residence. No more than two (2) of such staff shall reside in the
                 dwelling at any one time. This use may also include all voluntary communal
                 living facilities that are not a homeless shelter or other facility defined
DWELLING - GROUP herein. The department of health and welfare may require the group home, as
HOME / RESIDENCE herein defined, to be licensed and set minimum standards for providing
(9 OR >          services or operation. Such licensure may be under the residential or
RESIDENTS):      assisted living facility rules, or under the intermediate care facilities or
                 related conditions rules, or under rules specifically written for such group
                 homes. This definition, as herein defined, and use does not include or apply
                 to tenancy or planned tenancy in a group home or residence by persons who
                 are under the supervision of the state board of correction pursuant to
                 section 20-219, Idaho Code, or who are required to register pursuant to
                 chapter 83 or 84, title 18, Idaho Code, or whose tenancy would otherwise
                 constitute a direct threat to the health or safety of other individuals or
                 whose tenancy would result in substantial physical damage to the property of
                 others (see definition of Transitional Homes).
                 A building or structure that has a combination of a single dwelling unit and
DWELLING - LIVE  a work component that is operated by the tenant of the dwelling unit. The
/ WORK:          area designated for the work component must be located on the ground level
                 and occupy not less than twenty-five (25) percent, and no more than fifty
                 (50) percent of the total gross floor area of the live/work unit.
DWELLING -       A building containing three (3) dwelling units within the same building and
MULTIFAMILY      where the dwelling units in the building are not separated by physical
(TRIPLEX):       property lines.
DWELLING -       A building containing four (4) dwelling units within the same building and
MULTIFAMILY      where the dwelling units within the building are not separated by physical
(FOURPLEX):      property lines.
                 A single building containing five (5) to six (6) dwelling units on a
DWELLING-        singular parcel and where the dwelling units within the building are not
MULTIFAMILY      separated by physical property lines. For more than six (6) units on a
APARTMENTS       singular parcel, see Dwelling - Multifamily Apartments (Large Scale). For
(SMALL SCALE):   the purposes of this definition, apartments may or may not be owner-
                 occupied. Apartments that are sold and under individual ownership are
                 considered condominium apartments. See definition of condominium .
                 A building containing seven (7) or more dwelling units where the dwelling
DWELLING -       units within the building are not separated by physical property lines or a
MULTIFAMILY      singular parcel containing seven (7) or more dwelling units regardless of
APARTMENTS       unit configuration. For the purposes of this definition, apartments may or
(LARGE SCALE):   may not be owner-occupied. Apartments that are sold and under individual
                 ownership are considered condominium apartments. See definition of
                 condominium .
                 A one-family dwelling that is not attached to any other principal dwelling
DWELLING -       but may include an attached or detached Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) as
SINGLE FAMILY    defined within this article. This definition also includes detached tiny
(DETACHED):      homes complying with the International Residential Code, and detached
                 cottage type housing. See also Dwelling - Group Home/Residence, Eight or
                 Fewer Residents definition
                 A one-family dwelling, attached on one or both sides to another dwelling by
DWELLING -       common vertical walls without openings (each dwelling unit occupies its own
SINGLE FAMILY    lot or parcel, but with a zero-foot lot line on the attached side - also
(TOWNHOUSE):     known as a townhouse). See also Dwelling - Group Home/Residence, Eight of
                 Fewer Residents definition.
                 A single-family dwelling unit, constructed after June 15, 1976, in
                 accordance with the HUD manufactured home construction and safety standards,
                 and is transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode,
                 is eight (8) body feet or more in width or is forty (40) body feet or more
                 in length, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used
                 as a dwelling with a permanent foundation when connected to the required
DWELLING -       utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and
SINGLE FAMILY    electrical systems contained therein, except that such term shall include
(MANUFACTURED    any structure which meets all the requirements of Idaho Code 39-4105 except
HOME):           the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily
                 files a certification required by the secretary of housing and urban
                 development and complies with the standards established under 42 USC section
                 5401 et seq. All land zoned for single-family residential uses, except for
                 lands falling within an area defined as a historic district, shall allow for
                 siting of manufactured homes. This shall not be construed as abrogating a
                 recorded restrictive covenant.
                 A factory-assembled structure or structures constructed prior to June 15,
DWELLING -       1976, and equipped with the necessary service connections and made so as to
SINGLE FAMILY    be readily movable as a unit or units on their own running gear and designed
(MOBILE HOME):   to be used as a dwelling unit or units with or without a permanent
                 foundation. (Idaho Code section 39-4105)
                 Building that provides tenancy or planned tenancy by persons who are under
                 the supervision of the state board of correction pursuant to section 20-219,
DWELLING -       Idaho Code, or who are required to register pursuant to chapter 83 or 84,
TRANSITIONAL     title 18, Idaho Code, or whose tenancy would otherwise constitute a direct
HOME:            threat to the health or safety of other individuals or whose tenancy would
                 result in substantial physical damage to the property of others.
                 Transitional homes are not group homes, as defined herein, regardless of the
                 number of tenants.
DWELLING - TWO   A building containing two (2) dwelling units within the same building and
FAMILY (DUPLEX): where the dwelling units in the building are not separated by physical
                 property lines.
                 A single unit providing complete independent living facilities for one or
DWELLING UNIT:   more people, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating,
                 cooking and sanitation.
EASEMENT:        A grant of one or more property rights by the property owner to and/or for
                 use by the public, a corporation, or other person or entity.
EAVES:           The projecting lower edges of a roof overhanging the wall of a building.
ELEVATED         A structure that is used for pedestrian access that extends across or over
PEDESTRIAN       public rights-of-way or alleys and will be accessory to a principally
WALKWAYS:        permitted or specially permitted use. This includes skyways, skybridges,
                 skywalks, and similar uses.
EMERGENCY        A means of vehicular access, other than primary access, to a subdivision or
ACCESS:          development for emergency services only, improved to city standards and
                 specifications.
ENCROACHMENT:    Any structure which extends into a required setback, easement line, or
                 right-of-way.
                 Plans, profiles, cross sections and other required details for the
                 construction of public improvements or other required improvements, prepared
                 by a registered engineer, in accordance with the approved preliminary plat
ENGINEERING      and in compliance with any applicable development agreements and/or
PLANS:           conditions of approval, existing standards of design and construction
                 approved by the council and also in compliance with city code as defined
                 herein, regardless of details on an approved preliminary plat, unless stated
                 otherwise in the preliminary plat order of decision or development
                 agreement.
EQUIPMENT REPAIR The use of a site for the repair and servicing of tools, trucks, tractors,
AND SERVICE -    construction equipment, agricultural implements, or similar industrial
LARGE:           equipment. Incidental sales may be included in this definition.
                 An establishment for the repair and servicing of small engines and equipment
EQUIPMENT REPAIR such as lawnmowers, snowblowers, chain saws, and the like. This does not
AND SERVICE -    include any type of automotive or vehicular engine/equipment repair. See
SMALL:           also "Equipment Repair and Service -Large", "Equipment Repair and Service -
                 Household" and "Automotive - Repair Services."
                 Establishments that provide for the repair and service of home appliances,
EQUIPMENT REPAIR such as dishwashers, refrigerators, washer and dryers, and similar pieces of
AND SERVICE -    equipment. Does not include maintenance and repair of vehicles, farm
HOUSEHOLD:       equipment, lawnmowers or similar equipment. See also definition of
                 "Equipment Repair and Service -Large", "Equipment Repair and Service -
                 Household" and "Automotive - Repair Services."
                 An establishment which is rented out to the public for events such as
                 weddings, receptions, and the like. Typically, a cover charge is not
EVENT CENTER:    required for those attending. Food and beverages may be served, but all food
                 preparation takes place off site. Alcoholic beverages may be served provided
                 the appropriate liquor or alcohol license has been obtained for the event.
EVERGREEN:       Trees that retain their leaves year-round. They do shed older leaves, but
                 the tree does not lose all its leaves at one time.
                 A fa ç ade is the composition and placement of exterior walls of a building
FACADE:          that face either a primary or secondary street, public right-of-way, or open
                 space; or that contains the main entrance to a building.
                 A person living alone or two (2) or more persons living together related by
                 blood or marriage or a group of individuals not necessarily related by
                 blood, marriage, adoption, or guardianship living together in one single-
FAMILY:          family dwelling unit as a single housekeeping unit. For purposes of this
                 chapter, family does not include any society, club, fraternity, sorority,
                 association, lodge, federation, or like organizations; or any group of
                 individuals who are in group living arrangements as a result of criminal
                 offenses.
FARM ANIMALS:    Horses, cattle, sheep, chickens, roosters, goats, pigs and other similar
                 animals kept for profit or use.
                 A structure for the display and sale of farm products or the seasonal
                 selling or offering for sale at retail of farm products occurring in a
                 predesignated area either outside or inside a building and does not
FARM STAND -     interfere with vision triangle areas or decrease the required number of
OFF-SITE:        parking spaces for the primary principal use. All activities, whether the
                 display or selling of all farm products, must be conducted outside of any
                 right-of-way and shall comply with all the requirements of the temporary use
                 provisions of this chapter.
                 The display and sale of farm products grown on the property upon which the
FARM STAND - ON- stand is located where the seller is an individual who has raised the farm
SITE:            product(s). All activities, whether the display or selling of all farm
                 products, must be conducted outside of any right-of-way. This use is allowed
                 as an accessory use to a permitted agricultural use.
                 The use of a site for the seasonal sale of fresh agricultural products
FARMERS MARKET:  directly to the consumer at an open-air market designed as a community
                 activity.
FENCE:           A barrier of any material or combination of materials permitted by this
                 chapter that is erected to enclose, screen, or separate areas.
FENCE - OPEN     A fence, including any gates, constructed with openings between the
STYLE:           materials used in its construction.
FENCE - SIGHT    A solid fence or wall constructed of substantial, rigid material without a
OBSCURING /      pattern of holes, cavities, breaks or openings. Materials must be
OBSTRUCTING:     complimentary and in harmony with the main building materials and approved
                 by the Director.
                 The use of a site for lending, exchanging, and handling money or currency
                 for customers. The use includes, but is not limited to, credit unions,
FINANCIAL        savings and loans, commercial banks, cash machines, and loan establishments.
INSTITUTION:     This does not include payday loans and title loan establishments. Financial
                 institutions with drive-throughs shall comply with the specific use
                 provisions of this chapter.
FIRE DEPARTMENT: The city of Caldwell Fire Department, which is also the Caldwell Rural Fire
                 Protection District.
                 An indoor facility of two thousand (2,000) square feet or less in size where
                 passive or active exercises and related activities are performed using
FITNESS FACILITY minimal muscle-building equipment or apparatus for the purpose of physical
- SMALL:         fitness, improved circulation or flexibility, and/or weight control.
                 Examples include, but are not limited to dance studios, karate, personal
                 training and yoga studios.
                 A full-service fitness center, gymnasium, or health and athletic club, which
FITNESS FACILITY is over two thousand (2,000) square feet in size and may include any of the
- LARGE:         following: sauna, spa or hot tub facilities; weight rooms; indoor tennis,
                 handball, or racquetball courts; aerobic classes and other indoor sports
                 activities; locker rooms and showers.
FLEA MARKET:     An occasional or periodic market held in an open area or structure where
                 groups of individual sellers offer goods for sale to the public.
                 The use of a building or portion thereof for small scale warehousing and/or
FLEX SPACE:      light industry with associated office and/or retail showroom space.
                 Flexibility in use of the interior spaces and low scale, attractive exterior
                 appearances characterize flex buildings.
FLOOR AREA,      The sum of the gross floor area of all the rooms contained within a building
GROSS:           including the exterior walls of a building or portion thereof.
                 The sum of the net floor area of all the rooms contained within a building,
FLOOR AREA, NET: excluding bathrooms, hallways, and closets. The net floor area of a room is
                 determined by measuring from interior wall to interior wall.
FOOD BANK/SOUP   Facility or organization (typically a not-for-profit organization) that
KITCHEN:         collects, stores, and distributes food to individuals and families in need.
                 A permanent structure for the display and sale of food and/or beverages,
FOOD STAND:      such as coffee or hotdog stands, or similar, not providing indoor seating or
                 walk-in service, but providing walk-up or drive-up service only, and is less
                 than eight hundred (800) square feet in size.
                 A parcel of land where two or more licensed and operable mobile food units /
FOOD TRUCK LOT / vendors congregate and involves the preparation and sale of food and/or
COURT:           beverages in a ready to consume state for consumption on or off the
                 premises, but not within the mobile food unit.
FOR-FEE          An individual engaging in the construction or landscape business that does
CONTRACTOR:      work on public or private rights of way; these individuals will have to be
                 licensed and certified.
                 A building containing sleeping rooms, bathrooms, common rooms, and a central
FRATERNITY/      kitchen and dining room maintained exclusively for fraternity/sorority
SORORITY HOUSE:  members and their guests or visitors and affiliated with an institution of
                 higher learning.
                 An establishment in which space in individual lockers is rented, leased, or
FROZEN FOOD      loaned to individuals, firms, or corporations, for the storage of food for
LOCKER FACILITY: their own use and which is artificially cooled for the purpose of preserving
                 the food
                 A building used for the preparation of the deceased for burial and the
FUNERAL HOME:    display of the deceased and rituals connected therewith before burial or
                 cremation.
FUTURE LAND USE  The future land use map is a community s visual guide to future planning.
MAP (FLUM):      The map represents what future zoning and land uses should be as the city
                 grows and changes.
                 A building or structure used or intended to be used for the parking and
GARAGE,          storage of vehicles, as an accessory building or structure to a residential
RESIDENTIAL:     structure, and shall meet all standards for accessory uses, buildings and
                 structures as set forth in this chapter.
                 All general sales, open or advertised to the public, conducted from or on a
                 residential premises (single- family, duplexes, or apartments), in any
                 residential zone for the purpose of disposing of tangible personal property.
                 Said sales include situations in which more than three (3) specific items
                 tangible to a personal property are to be sold. Personal property is
                 property which is owned, utilized, and maintained by an individual or
GARAGE/YARD      members of his or her residence and acquired in the normal course of living
SALE:            in or maintaining a residence. Merchandise, whether new or used, purchased
                 for resale at a garage sale or obtained by consignment for sale at a garage
                 sale is prohibited. See
                 Chapter 6, article 15 of this Code for additional requirements regarding
                 garage/yard sales. This definition shall not prevent residents from
                 conducting multi-family yard sales on their property provided that all other
                 rules and provisions are adhered to.
GAZEBO:          An accessory building consisting of a detached, covered, freestanding, open
                 air structure.
GIRDLING:        Damaging or removing the bark and cambium layer around the tree trunk in a
                 manner that usually kills the tree.
GOAL:            A statement of intention expressing community values and attitudes intended
                 to provide a guide for action by the community.
GOVERNMENTAL     Any unit of local government that is empowered by Title 67, Idaho Code.
ENTITY:
                 A building or structure whose roof and sides are made largely of glass or
GREENHOUSE -     other transparent or translucent material and in which the temperature and
COMMERCIAL:      humidity can be regulated for the cultivation of fragile or out-of-season
                 plants for subsequent sale.
                 Stone, rock, gravel, lava rock, or other similar materials. For purposes of
HARDSCAPE        this chapter, boulder and rock slab are not considered hardscape materials;
MATERIAL:        rather, they are considered accent and safety landscape features (see
                 definition of Boulder and Rock Slab).
                 When there is a unique burden on a property because of zoning regulations
HARDSHIP:        resulting in significant or all loss of economic value. Hardship can result
                 from the shape, size, layout, environmental impacts, and unique location of
                 the parcel.
                 An individual appointed by the council who shall, as directed by council,
HEARING          perform the duties of the planning and zoning commission regarding requests
EXAMINER:        on special use permits, variances, subdivision plats, planned unit
                 developments, and rezones.
                 Areas, either at ground level or elevated on a structure, licensed by a
HELIPAD:         federal or state agency and approved for the loading, landing, and takeoff
                 of helicopters and includes auxiliary facilities, such as parking, waiting
                 room, fueling, and maintenance equipment.
HERBICIDE:       A chemical preparation or other agent for destroying or inhibiting growth of
                 weeds or other harmful vegetation.
HILLSIDE:        Slopes exceeding ten percent (10%).
                 Any activity carried out for gain by a resident and conducted in the
HOME OCCUPATION: resident s dwelling unit or other structure that meets all the requirements
                 and standards for a home occupation as listed in this chapter. Only certain
                 uses are permitted as a home occupation.
                 Homeowners associations (HOAs) are the governing body of many common
HOMEOWNERS       interest communities (CIC), such as subdivisions, who manage the common
ASSOCIATION:     areas and interests of the community, and ensure that homeowners follow the
                 covenants, conditions, and restrictions (CC&Rs) that govern all property in
                 the community.
                 A dwelling unit wherein education and instruction take place for persons
HOMESCHOOL:      between the ages of five (5) and eighteen (18) years of age that meets state
                 requirements for elementary and secondary education and does not secure any
                 funding from any governmental agency.
                 An institution or facility providing medical services, including psychiatric
                 or surgical services for sick or injured persons primarily on an in-patient
                 basis, but may also include ancillary facilities for outpatient and
HOSPITAL:        emergency treatment, diagnostic services, training, research,
                 administration, pharmaceuticals, and other services for patients, employees,
                 or visitors. Accessory uses may include helipads, helicopter landing pads
                 and hangars.
HOUSEHOLD INCOME Extremely low-income households are defined as households with income at or
- EXTREMELY LOW: below 30% of the area median income.
HOUSEHOLD INCOME Moderate income households are defined as households with income between 81%
- MODERATE       and 120% of the area median income.
INCOME:
HOUSEHOLD INCOME Low to moderate income households are defined as households with income at
- LOW INCOME:    or below 80% of the area median income.
HOUSEHOLD INCOME Very low-income households are defined as households with income at or below
- VERY LOW:      50% of the area median income.
                 A payment of money imposed as a condition of development approval to pay for
                 a proportionate share of the cost of system improvements needed to serve a
IMPACT FEES:     development. The term does not include a charge or fee to pay the
                 administrative, plan review or inspection costs associated with permits
                 required for development.
IMPACT FEES -    A proposed timetable or schedule of significant future capital improvements
CAPITAL          to be carried out during a specific period usually with cost estimates and
IMPROVEMENT      the anticipated means of financing each project.
PROGRAM (CIP):
IMPACT FEES -
CAPITAL          A plan adopted pursuant to this article that identifies capital improvements
IMPROVEMENT      for which impact fees may be used as a funding source.
PLAN:
IMPACT FEES -    Improvements with a useful life of ten (10) years or more, by new
CAPITAL          construction or other action, which increases the service capacity of a
IMPROVEMENTS:    public facility.
                 An impact which is reasonably determined by the city to: result in the need
IMPACT FEES -    for police, fire, parks, or traffic system improvements, the cost of which
EXTRAORDINARY    will significantly exceed the sum of the impact fees to be generated from
IMPACT:          the project; or result in the need for police, fire, parks, and traffic
                 system improvements that are not identified in the capital improvements
                 plans.
IMPACT FEES -    The consequences of a course of action; the effect of a goal, guideline,
IMPACT:          plan, or decision.
                 A document setting forth the reasonable methodologies and analyses for
IMPACT FEES -    determining the impacts of various types of new growth and development on
IMPACT FEE       the public facilities and determines the cost of acquiring or constructing
STUDY:           improvements necessary to meet the demands for such public facilities
                 created or necessary due to new growth and development.
                 A payment of money imposed as a condition of development approval to pay for
IMPACT FEES -    a proportionate share of the cost of fire improvements needed to serve
FIRE:            development. The term does not include a charge or fee to pay the
                 administrative, plan review or inspection costs associated with permits
                 required for development.
IMPACT FEES -    The official appointed by the Mayor with the City Council approval to
IMPACT FEE       administer this article.
ADMINISTRATOR:
IMPACT FEES -    A description of the service area and projections of land uses, densities,
LAND USE         intensities, and population in the service area over at least a twenty (20)
ASSUMPTIONS:     year period.
IMPACT FEES -    A measure of the relationship between service capacity and service demand
LEVEL OF         for public facilities.
SERVICE:
                 A payment of money imposed as a condition of development approval to pay for
IMPACT FEES -    a proportionate share of the cost of parks and recreation improvements
PARKS AND        needed to serve development. The term does not include a charge or fee to
RECREATION:      pay the administrative, plan review or inspection costs associated with
                 permits required for development.
IMPACT FEES -    A person who pays or is required to pay an impact fee or the fee payor s
PAYOR:           successor in interest.
                 A payment of money imposed as a condition of development approval to pay for
IMPACT FEES -    a proportionate share of the cost of police improvements needed to serve the
POLICE:          development. The term does not include a charge or fee to pay the
                 administrative, plan review or inspection costs associated with permits
                 required for development.
IMPACT FEES -    The total current monetary value of the past, present or future payments,
PRESENT VALUE:   contributions or dedications of goods, services, materials, construction, or
                 money.
IMPACT FEES -    That portion of the cost of system improvements determined pursuant to
PROPORTIONATE    section 67-8207, Idaho Code, and section
SHARE:           10-03-14 of this article, which reasonably relates to the service demands
                 for public facilities of a project.
IMPACT FEES -    The territory within the limits of the city where public services are
SERVICE AREA:    provided.
IMPACT FEES -    A person who gains legal title in real property for which an impact fee is
SUCCESSOR IN     paid, or a credit is approved pursuant to the terms of this article.
INTEREST:
IMPACT FEES -    Costs incurred for construction or reconstruction of system improvements,
SYSTEM           including design, acquisition, engineering, and other costs attributable
IMPROVEMENT      thereto, and also including, without limitation, the type of costs described
COSTS:           in section 50-1702(h), Idaho Code, to provide additional public facilities
                 needed to serve new growth and development.
IMPACT FEES -    In contrast to project improvements, system improvements means capital
SYSTEM           improvements to public facilities that are designed to provide service to a
IMPROVEMENTS:    service area including, without limitation, the type of improvements the
                 city has the authority to make as described in section 50-1703, Idaho Code.
                 A payment of money imposed as a condition of development approval to pay for
IMPACT FEES -    a proportionate share of the cost of traffic improvements needed to serve
TRAFFIC:         the development. The term does not include a charge or fee to pay the
                 administrative, plan review or inspection costs associated with permits
                 required for development.
                 A surface that hinders the ability of water to percolate through underlying
IMPERVIOUS       soils. Examples typically include, but are not limited to, pavement
SURFACE:         (including driveways, parking lots, patios, walkways), rooftops, buildings
                 and compacted soils.
                 Land in proximity to Indian Creek as it flows from the Area of City Impact
                 through the Caldwell city limits and within the City Center of the City of
                 Caldwell. The corridor extends outward a distance of one hundred fifty feet
INDIAN CREEK     (150') from the bank s high-water mark. Any portion of a piece of property
CORRIDOR:        that exists within the one hundred fifty feet (150') from the banks high-
                 water mark classifies the entire piece of property as existing completely
                 within the Indian Creek corridor and thus having to comply with all rules
                 relating to development within the Indian Creek corridor. Landscaping plans
                 submitted within said corridor are subject to landscape plan design review.
                 A tract of land that is planned, developed, and operated as a coordinated
                 and integrated facility for a number of separate industrial uses, with
INDUSTRIAL PARK: consideration for circulation, parking, signage, utility needs, aesthetics,
                 and compatibility. An industrial park may include some compatible commercial
                 uses.
                 An establishment, no larger than 10,000 square feet, where shared or
                 individual tools, equipment or machinery are used to make or grow products
                 on a small scale, including the design, production, processing, printing,
                 assembly, treatment, testing, repair, and packaging, as well as any
INDUSTRY -       incidental storage, retail or wholesale sales and distribution of such
CRAFTSMAN/       products. The manufacturing, processing and storage of materials must be
ARTISAN:         contained indoors to prevent the emission of smoke, odor, dust, or noise
                 from the property. Sales may be conducted as a retail component, wholesale,
                 business to business, business to government, or entirely online. For the
                 purpose of this code, craftsman/artisan industry is not considered an
                 industrial land use. See Industry specific definitions below.
                 Light industry involves the assembly, fabrication or processing of small
                 products or simple manufacturing processes with limited power consumption.
                 Light industry processes do not ordinarily create noise, smoke, fumes,
                 odors, glare, or health or safety hazards outside of the building or lot
                 where such assembly, fabrication or processing takes place or where such
INDUSTRY - LIGHT processes are housed entirely within a building. Light industry generally
INDUSTRIAL:      includes processing and fabrication of finished products, predominantly from
                 previously prepared materials, and includes processes which do not require
                 extensive floor areas or land areas. Typical light industry uses include but
                 are not limited to electronics assembly, clothing manufacturing, non-
                 alcoholic beverages, household appliances, leather products, and jewelry.
                 See also the definition of Industry - Craftsman/Artisan and Industry -
                 Medium and See Industry specific definitions below.
                 Medium industry involves the assembly, fabrication, or processing of
                 materials or products that are more intensive than light industry but less
                 heavy and polluting than heavy industry. These activities may include
                 outdoor assembly and storage of products. Outdoor manufacturing of raw
                 materials into compost, primarily for commercial resale, is a medium
                 manufacturing activity. These activities do not necessitate the storage of
INDUSTRY- MEDIUM large volumes of highly flammable, toxic matter or explosive materials
INDUSTRIAL:      needed for the manufacturing process. Typical medium industry uses include
                 but are not limited to food processing, alcoholic beverage manufacturing,
                 automotive parts production, furniture manufacturing, and sporting goods
                 manufacturing. May also include glue, carpet, porcelain products for
                 bathroom and kitchen fixtures; bleaching products; vegetable gelatin, dyes,
                 welding, furniture manufacturing and sporting goods manufacturing. See also
                 the definition of Industry - Craftsman / Artisan and Industry specific
                 definitions below.
                 Heavy industry involves large-scale production processes, heavy machinery,
                 and greater than average impacts on the environment, or that ordinarily have
                 significant impacts on the use and enjoyment of adjacent property in terms
                 of noise, smoke, fumes, odors, glare, or health and safety hazards. Heavy
                 industry typically requires extensive floor areas or land areas for the
INDUSTRY - HEAVY fabrication and/or incidental storage of the products. Heavy industrial land
INDUSTRIAL:      uses include, but are not limited to steel mills, oil refineries, wood
                 processing plants, concrete batch plants, chemical manufacturing plants,
                 power production, mining, recycling collection / transfer stations,
                 wrecking/salvage yards, meat/poultry/fish/wild game processing and
                 packaging, wholesale trade and distribution centers, data centers, railroad
                 yards, and freight terminals. See Industry-specific definitions below.
INDUSTRY -       A facility and enclosed yard designed primarily for the slaughter of animals
ANIMAL           or poultry.
SLAUGHTERHOUSE:
INDUSTRY -       Establishment used for the manufacturing, distribution, processing and/or
FIREWORKS        storage of any firework or other device containing explosive powders or
MANUFACTURING:   chemicals, and other combustible materials that cause an explosion when
                 ignited.
INDUSTRY -       A facility whose primary service is data processing and is used to house
INFORMATION /    computer systems and associated components. Server farms, cryptocurrency
DATA CENTER:     data center, data centers, cryptocurrency mining center are all classified
                 under this definition.
INDUSTRY -SILO   A structure used for the storing of bulk materials. Silos are commonly used
STORAGE:         for bulk storage of grains, seed, coal, cement, carbon black, woodchips,
                 food products and sawdust.
INDUSTRY -       An area or building used for the parking or storage of trucks in active use.
TRUCKING /       Truck terminals serve as facilities for trucking companies, providing
TERMINAL YARD:   drivers with a place to rest, temporarily store cargo, plan operations, and
                 take care of repairs.
                 An establishment engaged in the storage and movement of goods, such as
                 manufactured products, supplies, equipment or food, or parcels/mail. This
                 term excludes bulk storage of materials that are flammable or explosive or
INDUSTRY -       that create hazardous or commonly recognized offensive conditions. Goods are
WAREHOUSE AND    generally delivered to other firms or the final consumer, except for some
DISTRIBUTION     will-call pickups. There is little on-site sales activity with the customers
FACILITY:        present. This definition includes Cold Storage Plants where activity
                 includes the freezing and/or storing of frozen food products, warehouses or
                 facilities used by moving or relocation companies for the storage of
                 household goods in transit, and vending machine operators. This definition
                 does not include any type of manufacturing or processing.
                 A building used primarily for the storage of goods and materials by the
                 owner of the goods and operated for a specific commercial establishment or
INDUSTRY -       group of establishments in a particular industrial or economic field. This
WAREHOUSE AND    term does not include assembly, fabrication, processing, or distribution of
STORAGE          goods and materials. This term also excludes bulk storage of materials that
(GENERAL):       are flammable or explosive or that create hazardous or commonly recognized
                 offensive conditions. See also definition of Warehouse and Distribution
                 Facility .
INDUSTRY -       A building used primarily for the bulk storage of goods and materials by the
WAREHOUSE AND    owner of the goods or operated for a specific commercial establishment or
STORAGE          group of establishments in a particular industrial or economic field, where
(HAZARDOUS):     such materials are determined to be flammable, explosive and/or create
                 hazardous or commonly recognized offensive conditions.
                 The development of a vacant, underutilized, or disinvested property of five
INFILL           (5) acres or less, located in a predominantly built up and largely developed
DEVELOPMENT:     (at least fifty percent (50%) of the land within three hundred feet (300')
                 of the exterior boundaries of the subject property) area and to which
                 municipal services are already available.
INJURIOUS PEST   Organisms capable of seriously damaging the form or structural integrity of
OR DISEASE:      a tree.
                 A scientific and educational organization that has served the tree care
INTERNATIONAL    industry for the past seventy (70) plus years. Among the services this
SOCIETY OF       organization provides is an arborist certification program. The City of
ARBORICULTURE    Caldwell is reliant upon this society s certification process for
(ISA):           establishing and certifying arborists credentials necessary to providing fee
                 arboriculture services in Caldwell.
IRRIGATION       Includes canals, laterals, ditches, conduits, gates, pumps, and allied
FACILITIES:      equipment necessary for the supply, delivery, and drainage of irrigation
                 water.
                 Any old or discarded material; anything that is regarded as worthless,
JUNK:            meaningless, or contemptible; trash; cheap, worthless, unwanted, or trashy;
                 rubbish, litter, debris, refuse.
LABORATORY -     Establishment providing medical or dental laboratory services; or
MEDICAL /        establishment with less than two thousand (2,000) square feet providing
DENTAL:          photographic, analytical, or testing services (see definition of Research
                 Laboratory).
LABORATORY -     A facility for investigation into the natural, physical, or social sciences.
RESEARCH:
                 Landscape planters islands encased in curbing material installed to provide
LANDSCAPE        visual relief from the expanse of asphalt, while protecting the landscape
PLANTER ISLANDS: from vehicular injury. These planter islands occur at the interior of the
                 parking lot and at the perimeter of the parking lot in accordance with this
                 chapter.
                 Any business that operates to improve the appearance of an area through a
                 combination of the planting of trees, shrubs, grass, or vegetative ground
                 cover or by placement of nonvegetative ground cover or rock and/or altering
LANDSCAPING      the contours of the land; a business that adorns or improves a section of
BUSINESS:        ground by contouring and planting grass, flowers, shrubs, trees or
                 vegetative ground cover or placing nonvegetative ground cover or rock. Said
                 business may include the possible accessory uses of storing necessary
                 equipment (i.e., trucks, earthmoving equipment, trailers) or supplies (i.e.,
                 seed, rock, plants, etc.).
LAND USE
CHARACTER TYPE - Primary land uses are intended to be predominant and occur frequently within
PRIMARY          the place type area.
(Comprehensive
Plan):
LAND USE         Supporting land uses are not intended to be dominant within a place type
CHARACTER TYPE - area, should occur infrequently in the place type, and are evaluated on a
SUPPORTING       case-by-case basis to determine appropriateness. Supporting land uses may be
(Comprehensive   limited based on the location and compatibility with adjacent land uses. and
Plan):           are complimentary to the primary land uses.
                 Any ownership interest of any responsible person as herein defined in real
                 or personal property as evidenced by title or ownership documents or
LEGAL INTEREST:  instruments recorded with the Canyon County recorder s office or on file
                 with, or in possession of, any other governmental entity. Legal interest
                 shall also include the property interest of lessees or tenants of real
                 property, as well as all sublessees thereof.
LIBRARY:         A place in which literary, musical, artistic or reference materials are kept
                 for use, study, and research, but are not for sale.
                 Light emitting from one (1) property that crosses the property line of
LIGHT TRESPASS:  another property in excess of 0.1 foot-candle as measured at a height of
                 sixty (60) inches above grade in a plane at any angle of inclination.
                 That class of animals that are kept and housed outside the home or in
                 enclosures such as pens, barns, corrals, or paddock areas. Livestock
LIVESTOCK:       includes, but is not limited to, chickens, cows, ducks, geese, goats,
                 horses, llamas, peacocks, rabbits, roosters, sheep, swine and/or anything
                 similar to the aforementioned. Livestock also includes any grazing or
                 foraging animal.
                 A private, owner-occupied residence that offers overnight accommodation and
LODGING - BED    food service to guests for compensation. No more than ten (10) guestrooms
AND BREAKFAST    are allowed, and no cooking shall be allowed in guest rooms. Bath facilities
INNS:            shall be shared with no more than two (2) guestrooms and one (1) off-street
                 parking space for each guestroom and employee shall be provided and
                 maintained by the owner of the facility.
                 A small stylish hotel, typically having fewer than 100 rooms and situated in
LODGING -        a more urbanized location. A boutique hotel has a distinct character,
BOUTIQUE HOTEL:  intentional design and decor, and personalized service. Boutique hotels may
                 have small restaurants or bars, few recreational facilities, and limited
                 meeting space.
                 An establishment that provides guest rooms or suites for a fee to transient
                 guests for sleeping purposes. No provisions for cooking are provided in the
LODGING - HOTEL: guest rooms, except for microwaves and refrigerators. Access to units is
                 primarily from interior lobbies, courts, or halls. Related accessory uses
                 may include conference and meeting rooms, restaurants, bars, and
                 recreational facilities.
                 A long-term hotel facility offering transient lodging accommodation to the
LODGING - LONG   public, targeted to the business or leisure traveler who is planning to stay
TERM HOTEL       for an extended time. To constitute a long-term hotel, each hotel room must
(EXTENDED STAY): contain kitchen facilities to include a range cooktop, microwave or
                 conventional oven, refrigerator, and sink.
                 An establishment that provides guest rooms for a fee to transient guests for
LODGING - MOTEL: sleeping purposes. Guest rooms do not contain kitchen facilities. A motel is
                 distinguished from a hotel primarily by direct independent access to, and
                 adjoining parking for, each guest room.
                 A designated parcel, tract, or area of land established by plat,
LOT:             subdivision, or as otherwise permitted by law, to be separately owned, used,
                 developed, or built upon and may or may not have an obtainable building
                 permit available.
LOT - CORNER:    A lot situated at the junction of and abutting on two (2) or more
                 intersecting streets.
LOT - INTERIOR:  A lot other than a corner lot with only one frontage on a street other than
                 an alley.
LOT - THROUGH    A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on more than one street other
LOT:             than an alley. Through lots with frontage on two streets may be referred to
                 as double frontage lots.
                 A lot having access to a public road via a narrow private driveway, said
                 driveway having a minimum width of thirty feet (30') and a maximum length of
LOT - FLAG LOT:  one hundred fifty feet (150'). The minimum driveway width acts as the
                 required frontage on a public street, regardless of the frontage requirement
                 in the underlying zone.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d91e966eb643f10f466c7d7b166e0181c6c38ab7/IMAGES/0-0-0-
2433.jpg]
LOT AREA:        The total area within the lot lines of a lot, excluding any dedicated public
                 street rights of way.
                 That boundary of a lot along an existing or proposed public or private
LOT FRONTAGE:    street or alley. The minimum driveway width for a Flag Lot acts as the
                 required lot frontage, regardless of the frontage width minimum requirement
                 in the underlying zoning district. Lots may have more than one frontage.
LOT LINE:        A line of record bounding a lot that divides one lot from another lot or
                 from a public or private street or any other public space.
LOT LINE -       The lot line separating a lot from the street right-of-way that is utilized
FRONT:           as frontage for the property.
LOT LINE - REAR: The lot line opposite and most distant from the front lot line.
LOT LINE -       Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line.
INTERIOR SIDE:
LOT LINE -       A lot line that directly abuts a street or other accessway that is not
STREET SIDE:     utilized as frontage for the property.
                 The horizontal distance between the side lines of a lot measured at right
LOT WIDTH:       angles to its depth along a straight line parallel with the front lot line
                 at the minimum required building setback line.
                 A site containing five (5) or more spaces with required improvements and
MANUFACTURED     utilities that are leased for the long-term placement of manufactured homes
HOME COMMUNITY / or mobile homes where all leased lots remain under the ownership of one
DEVELOPMENT:     individual, corporation, or business entity. The site may include services
                 and facilities for the residents.
                 A vertical mixed-use building which blends two (2) to (3) multiple uses such
MIXED USE        as residential, commercial, cultural, institutional, public, entertainment
DEVELOPMENT -    or industrial into one building not exceeding 3-stories in height. See
SMALL SCALE:     Specific Use Provisions
                 10-12-03.
                 A vertical mixed-use building which blends two (2) or more multiple uses
MIXED USE        such as residential, commercial, cultural, institutional, public,
DEVELOPMENT -    entertainment or industrial land uses within a single building, which may
LARGE SCALE:     exceed 3-stories in height. See Specific Use Provisions
                 10-12-03.
                 A vehicle or a readily portable structure on wheels used solely for the
MOBILE FOOD      purpose of the preparation and sale of food and beverages. Mobile food units
UNIT:            shall be subject to all the provisions set forth in
                 Chapter 10, Article 12.
                 Any building or building component, other than a manufactured home or mobile
                 home as separately defined herein, which is constructed according to
MODULAR          standards contained in the building code, as adopted by the city or any
BUILDING:        amendments thereto, which is of closed construction and is either entirely
                 or substantially prefabricated or assembled at a place other than the
                 building site.
                 Modulation means a stepping back or projecting forward of sections of the
MODULATION:      facade of a structure within specified intervals of structure width and
                 depth, as a means of breaking up the apparent bulk of the continuous
                 exterior walls
MORTUARY:        An establishment where the primary focus is on the preparation and
                 presentation of the deceased, including embalming and body storage.
MOTORCYCLE:      A motorized bike designed for on-road use and licensed by the state.
MULCH:           A protective covering placed around plants to prevent the evaporation of
                 moisture, the freezing of roots and the growth of weeds.
MULTIFAMILY      A single parcel containing five (5) or more dwelling units, or a new
DEVELOPMENT:     residential subdivision where any individual lot is developed with a
                 residential structure that contains three (3) or more dwelling units.
MULTIMODAL       A transportation network that uses multiple modes of transportation, such as
TRAVEL NETWORK:  walking, biking, public transit, and driving, to connect people to their
                 destinations.
                 A graphic displayed on the exterior of a building, generally for the
                 purposes of decoration or artistic expression. A pictorial or graphical
                 representation applied to or painted on and made an integral part of an
                 exterior wall for the purposes of decoration or artistic expression. A mural
MURAL:           shall be considered a wall sign, and would require a sign permit, if it
                 contains words, logos, trademarks or graphic representations of any person,
                 product or service(s) that identifies or advertises the building upon which
                 it is or is to be located. Mural permits are required prior to the
                 installation of such.
MUSEUM:          An institution devoted to the procurement, care, study, and display of
                 objects of lasting interest or value.
                 Natural features include but are not limited to wetlands, rock outcroppings,
NATURAL FEATURES ponds and creeks, surface drainage channels, streams, canals and other
/ AREA:          bodies of water, steep slopes, prominent ridges, bluffs or valleys, and
                 groves of trees left undeveloped in their natural state.
NEIGHBORHOOD     A group of nonresidential establishments, planned, developed, and owned and/
DEVELOPMENT      or managed as a unit and comprised of between thirty thousand (30,000) to
CENTER:          one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of gross leasable floor area
                 within a single development. See also the definition of Community Centers.
                 Those uses of real property identified and subject to section Chapter 10,
                 Article 11, Section
NOISE SENSITIVE: 10-11-02 of this chapter. Noise sensitive uses do not include accessory uses
                 of real property where the primary use on the property is not noise
                 sensitive.
NONCONFORMING    A structure or building, the size, dimensions, or location of which was
BUILDING OR      lawful prior to the adoption, revision, or amendment of the zoning ordinance
STRUCTURE:       but that fails by reason of such adoption, revision, or amendment to conform
                 to the present requirements of the zoning district.
                 A lot, the area, dimensions, or location of which was lawful prior to the
NONCONFORMING    adoption, revision, or amendment of the zoning ordinance but that fails by
LOT:             reason of such adoption, revision, or amendment to conform to the present
                 requirements of the zoning district. Lots not legally established shall be
                 deemed to be illegal lots.
                 A use or activity that was lawful prior to the adoption, revision, or
NONCONFORMING    amendment of the zoning ordinance but that fails by reason of such adoption,
USE:             revision, or amendment to conform to the present requirements of the zoning
                 ordinance.
                 Any condition or use of the premises which is detrimental to the premises of
                 others or which causes, or tends to cause, material diminution in the value
                 of other premises in the neighborhood or which creates a condition tending
                 to promote blight and deterioration, invites plundering, creates fire or
NUISANCE:        traffic hazards, constitutes an unattractive nuisance, creates a harbor for
                 rodents or insects or otherwise is injurious to the health, safety and
                 general welfare of the inhabitants of the city. This shall include all
                 nuisances on private property, and nuisances situated on public property
                 adjacent to or contiguous with private property including sidewalks, parking
                 areas, areas behind curbs, and property to the center of alleys and ditches.
                 A facility where individuals receive assistance in performing the routines
                 of daily life, and where meals, personal care, and supervision of self-
NURSING AND      administered medication is provided. The use includes, but is not limited
RESIDENTIAL CARE to, children s treatment facilities, nursing homes, residential care
FACILITY:        facilities, facilities for those recovering from illness or injury who do
                 not require continued hospitalization, and drug and alcohol treatment
                 facilities. They may also provide other services, such as recreational
                 activities, financial services assistance, and transportation.
OFF STREET       Designated areas located adjacent to buildings, and separate from public
LOADING:         streets, public rights of way and future public rights of way, where trucks
                 may load and unload cargo.
OFF STREET       Parking for a specific use and not located on public streets, public rights
PARKING:         of way and/or future public rights of way. This includes any required guest
                 parking.
OFFICES          A facility, other than a hospital, where medical, dental, mental health,
(MEDICAL/DENTAL/ surgical or other personal health care services are provided on an
HEALTH CARE):    outpatient basis. This does not include hospitals.
                 To bring in relation to, or adjust to, the surroundings, situation, or
ORIENT:          environment; to place with the most important parts facing in certain
                 directions; to set or arrange in a determinate position: as in to orient a
                 building .
                 A separate accessory building or structure not physically connected to the
OUTBUILDING:     principal building and shall comply with section
                 10-12-03-1 of this chapter.
                 The keeping, in an unenclosed area, of any goods, junk, material, or
                 merchandise in the same place for more than twenty-four (24) hours. Such
OUTDOOR STORAGE: items shall be stored within a sight obscuring fence as defined in this
                 section. This definition does not include such uses as wrecking, salvage, or
                 junk yards which are Industry - Heavy Industrial uses.
OVERLAY ZONING   A zoning district that encompasses one or more underlying zones and that
DISTRICT:        imposes additional requirements, restrictions or development standards above
                 and beyond those required for the underlying zone.
                 A building or building site what is physically separate from the principal
PAD SITE:        or primary building and reserved for free-standing commercial or industrial
                 uses.
                 The streets upon which a city sanctioned parade, per Caldwell City Code
                 Section
                 09-13-01, shall be traveling, and the area within five hundred (500) feet of
PARADE ROUTE:    the centerlines of said streets. The parade route shall be deemed to exist
                 for the twenty-four (24) hours immediately prior to the start of a parade,
                 during a parade, and for the twenty-four (24) hours immediately following a
                 parade.
                 A tract or portion of land of not any precise size. Land other than a
                 platted lot. Sometimes called section land, parcels are generally described
PARCEL:          by a metes and bounds legal description, aliquot parts or references to
                 quadrangular survey measurements utilizing sections, townships, and ranges
                 or government lots.
                 Medium to large footprint, multi-use parks that are intended to serve
PARK -           multiple neighborhoods and populations. Community parks are typically
COMMUNITY:       between 15-80 acres and provide amenities that serve a range of users and
                 interests. These park sites may have playgrounds or a small section of
                 sports facilities and may or may not have permanent restroom facilities.
                 Linear parks are long, narrow public park spaces that typically follow a
PARK - LINEAR:   river, canal, shoreline or manmade structure such as a highway or barrier
                 wall. The park spaces are often used for active transportation and serve as
                 a connection corridor.
PARK - NATURAL   This special park site classification identifies spaces that serve as an
INTERFACE OR     interface for nature and have an emphasis on preserving and supporting the
PRESERVE:        natural environment. These spaces are typically not manicured like a
                 traditional park and allow limited recreational use.
                 Neighborhood parks are typically less than 15-acres in size and serves as
                 the recreational and social focus of surrounding neighborhoods. These parks
PARK -           may or may not have built in amenities such as small playgrounds, a tennis
NEIGHBORHOOD:    court, picnic areas and covered spaces. These parks are less likely to have
                 permanent restroom facilities. Neighborhood parks are easily accessible to
                 pedestrians and bicyclists who live near the park site.
                 A small, mostly passive, urban park that offers shaded seating and includes
                 such amenities as water features, art or a small playground. Pocket parks
PARK - POCKET:   range in size from twenty-five hundred (2,500) square feet to approximately
                 one-quarter (1/4) acre. Pocket parks abut streets and are physically and
                 visually accessible from the public sidewalks.
                 Large footprint, multi-use parks that serve a broader community within a
                 region. Metropolitan parks are typically 80-500 acres in size and regional
                 parks often exceed 500 acres. Both park types are intended to draw visitors
PARK- REGIONAL / from a wide geographic range often extending to nearby cities. These park
METROPOLITAN:    spaces will include a wide range of amenities including playgrounds, sports
                 fields and facilities, restrooms, and large parking areas. These parks often
                 are situated near other amenities and destinations such as a riverfront or
                 walkable commercial districts.
PARK - SPECIAL   Identifies non-traditional park sites that serve a special function or are
USE SITES:       designated to celebrate a site of historical or cultural significance.
PARKING GARAGE - A privately owned building or structure consisting of more than one level
PRIVATE:         and used to temporarily house vehicles.
PARKING GARAGE - A public or quasi-publicly owned and/or operated building or structure
PUBLIC:          consisting of more than one level and used to temporarily house vehicles.
PARKING LOT -    A privately owned and/or operated off street, ground level open area that
ACCESSORY,       provides temporary housing for vehicles that serve a specific use, building,
PRIVATE:         or business.
PARKING LOT -    A public or quasi-publicly owned and/or operated, off street, ground level
PUBLIC:          open area that provides temporary housing for vehicles that does not serve a
                 specific use, building, or business, but is open to the public.
PARKING LOT -    A privately owned and/or operated off street, ground level open area that
STAND ALONE,     provides temporary housing for vehicles that does not serve a specific use,
PRIVATE:         building, or business.
                 That portion of public right-of-way situated between the curb line of any
PARKWAY -        street and the property line abutting and adjoining any street. In the
LANDSCAPING      absence of a curb, the curb line of a street shall be deemed to be the edge
(Also known as   of that portion of public right-of-way maintained and open to the use of the
the PARKING      public for purposes of vehicular travel. The purpose of the parkway is to
STRIP AREA):     increase pedestrian safety and to improve the visual aesthetics and
                 environmental quality of roadways through landscaping.
                 An eight (8) foot wide, ADA accessible, improved path or walkway that is
PATHWAY -        specifically designed for pedestrian travel placed in subdivisions and
COMMUNITY:       developments to connect to existing, proposed, planned or possible future
                 pathways of adjoining developments. These pathways shall also connect to
                 regional pathways where applicable.
                 A minimum five (5) foot wide, ADA accessible, improved path or walkway that
PATHWAY -        is specifically designed for pedestrian travel and placed in subdivisions
NEIGHBORHOOD:    and developments in order to provide connectivity between common open space
                 areas, and to community pathways.
                 A minimum ten (10) foot wide, ADA accessible, improved path or walkway that
PATHWAYS -       is designed for pedestrian and bicyclists and placed to connect to existing
REGIONAL:        or planned regional pathway segments, along areas requiring a public pathway
                 per any City master plan.
                 Establishments licensed by this code and engaged in the buying or selling of
PAWNSHOPS:       new or secondhand merchandise (not including passenger vehicles), and
                 offering loans secured by personal property.
                 Payday loan establishment means an establishment licensed to make payday
                 loans pursuant to part 4 of chapter 46, title 28, Idaho Code. Title loan
                 establishment means an establishment licensed to make title loans pursuant
PAYDAY LOAN AND  to part 5 of chapter 46, title 28, Idaho Code. Payday loans mean a payday
TITLE LOAN       loan as defined in Idaho Code section 28-46-401. Title loan means a title
ESTABLISHMENTS:  loan as defined in Idaho Code section 28-46-502. This definition is not
                 exclusive to payday and title loan establishments and shall include all
                 establishments regulated by the Idaho Department of Finance whose primary
                 purpose is to provide short-term loans or cash advances.
PEDESTRIAN       An underground passageway, dug through the surrounding soil/earth/rock and
TUNNEL:          enclosed except for entrance and exit, commonly at each end, and used
                 exclusively for pedestrian or bicycle traffic.
PERENNIAL        Plants and/or flowers that will come back for years and are classified as a
PLANTS/ FLOWERS: perennial for the Caldwell, Idaho climate zone.
PERMITTED USE:   Any use allowed in a zoning district and subject to the restrictions
                 applicable to that zoning district and by the provisions of this chapter.
                 A use that provides non-professional services directly to the consumer,
                 including but not limited to hair, skin and nail care, massage therapy,
                 tailoring, tanning salons, catering, repair of shoes and other household
                 items, electronics repair, bicycle repair, self-service or drop-off laundry
PERSONAL         (including off-site dry cleaning), travel agencies, locksmiths, printing,
SERVICES:        copying, and photographic services, mailing and shipping services, or
                 similar services. This use does not include the servicing of automobiles or
                 other activities involving the use of hazardous materials on the premises,
                 distribution or warehousing, or drycleaning plants or laundries. See also
                 definition of Schools - Commercial.
                 Pets generally include those animals that are typically housed indoors. Pets
                 also include certain animals that may be housed outdoors. Those certain
                 animals, in limited numbers only, are cats; chickens; dogs; ducks; geese;
                 goats; miniature horses; pigeons, doves or similar; potbellied pigs; rabbits
PET:             or similar; reptiles (nonprohibited only); rodents (nonprohibited only);
                 sheep; or such equivalent small animals or poultry as determined by the
                 planning director or his/her authorized designee. Animals deemed to be pets
                 shall comply with the performance standards as set forth in this section and
                 only qualify as pets in the maximum number allowed in this section.
PHASED           The developing or subdividing of a lot, tract, or parcel of land in phases
DEVELOPMENT:     or the controller s development, redevelopment, subdivision or resubdivision
                 of contiguous parcels.
                 Place types, as utilized within the form of future development, as
                 envisioned for the City of Caldwell. These Place Types are generally
                 organized into the categories of the neighborhoods where we live
                 (Neighborhood 1, Neighborhood 2, Neighborhood 3 and Urban Neighborhood), the
                 employment areas where we work (Employment Center and Mixed Use Center),
                 centers where we shop, dine, and play (Community Center, Downtown Core, and
                 Area Hubs), and areas where public services, transportation and utilities
PLACE TYPES:     are found (Special Purpose).These Place Types will in turn provide the
                 policy-level guidance that will inform the City s Ordinances. Using the
                 intent and direction of the Place Types in the Comprehensive Plan and the
                 Future Place Types Mapping, the City s Ordinances will identify zoning
                 districts and other ordinances that will further define how the Place Types
                 are realized in actual development. Each Place Type will correspond with
                 multiple zoning districts that will provide a high-level of detail and
                 regulatory guidance on items such as height, lot size, setbacks,
                 adjacencies, and allowed uses.
PRINCIPAL USE:   The primary or predominant use of any lot or parcel.
PRINCIPAL        The main structure or building on a lot or parcel in which the primary/
STRUCTURE:       principal use occurs.
                 Offices maintained and used as a place of business for professionals
                 including, but not limited to, engineers, attorneys, architects, certified
                 or licensed public accountants, landscape architects and other design
                 services, management services, occupational therapists, geologists,
PROFESSIONAL     surveyors, real estate agents, realtors, financial planners or advisors,
SERVICES:        appraisers, social workers, and other persons providing services that
                 commonly require specialized training or professional certification.
                 Professional offices do not include offices maintained and used as a place
                 of business for medical, dental or health care related professions, which
                 are addressed under the definition for Office - medical/dental/health care .
PROJECT:         A particular development on an identified parcel of land.
PROJECT          Site improvements and facilities that are planned and designed to provide a
IMPROVEMENTS:    service for a project and that are necessary for the use and convenience of
                 the occupants or users of the project.
                 Architectural details such as cornices, balconies, eaves, chimneys, pop out
PROJECTION:      windows, and similar, which do not include footings and project from the
                 main building wall facade.
                 An individual, person or persons, firm, association, syndicate, partnership,
                 or corporation having sufficient proprietary interest to seek development or
PROPERTY OWNER:  subdivision of land. The owner may assign, in writing, application submittal
                 and subdivision development authority to an applicant who is not the owner.
                 To the extent an owner is applying for subdivision of property in its own
                 name, such owner shall be the applicant for purposes of this chapter.
PUBLIC           Any building housing public or quasi-public land uses and used primarily for
ADMINISTRATIVE   administrative office type uses. Accessory uses are permitted when
OFFICE:          associated with a permitted public administrative office.
                 Any building, other than as defined under public administrative office ,
                 used exclusively for public purposes by any public or quasi-public agency or
                 department. This includes all branches of government (federal, state,
PUBLIC FACILITY/ municipal, and county services), publicly operated community centers or
BUILDING:        convention centers; courts; fire stations; law enforcement; library; park
                 and ride lots; parks and recreation facilities, post offices; transit
                 stations and similar uses. This definition does not include public schools
                 or education facilities.
                 Any property owned by, dedicated to, or deeded to the public or for the
                 public s use. City parks, public right-of-way, cemeteries, libraries, and
PUBLIC PROPERTY: other public owned, controlled, leased, or managed properties are included
                 in this definition. This definition excludes any federal, state or county
                 owned properties except where otherwise provided by contract or law.
                 Improved or unimproved public property owned by, dedicated to, or deeded to,
                 the public or for the public s use, for the purpose of providing vehicular,
                 pedestrian, and other public use. Right-of-way is utilized for placement of
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF- streets, alleys, sidewalks, trees, parkways, lawn, public utilities, cut and
WAY:             fill slopes, and open space. Right-of-way is acquired in keeping with the
                 roadway s functionality as listed on the Canyon County functionally
                 classified roadway map or any functional class/street highway master plans
                 adopted by the city of Caldwell.
                 Buildings, structures, or facilities, including generating and switching
PUBLIC UTILITY   stations, poles, lines, pipes, pumping stations, repeaters, antennas,
YARD:            transmitters and receivers, valves, and all buildings and structures
                 relating to the furnishing of utility services, such as electric, gas,
                 telephone, water, sewer, and public transit, to the public.
                 Those vehicles with a vehicular type of portable structure without permanent
                 foundation that can be towed, hauled, or driven and primarily designed as
RECREATIONAL     temporary living accommodation for recreation, camping, and travel use and
VEHICLE (RV):    including, but not limited to, travel trailers, truck campers, camping
                 trailers, and self-propelled motor homes. This definition shall also include
                 motorized boats, jet skis, and similar watercraft.
                 Any lot or parcel of land upon which two (2) or more sites are located,
                 designed, established, or maintained for the purpose of supplying a location
RECREATIONAL     or accommodation for recreational vehicles and its occupants to park for a
VEHICLE (RV)     stay for living purposes, for up to no longer than six (6) months. The term
PARK:            includes all buildings and open space used or intended for use as part of
                 the RV Park. No manufactured homes or dwelling units of conventional
                 construction shall be permitted on a lot or space for living purposes.
                 Recreational Vehicle (RV) Parks are considered transient in nature.
                 A section of ground in a recreational vehicle park of not less than one
RECREATIONAL     thousand two hundred fifty (1,250) square feet, having a width of not less
VEHICLE PARK     than twenty-five feet (25') and a depth of not less than fifty feet (50') of
UNIT:            unoccupied space in an area designated as the location for one automobile
                 and recreational vehicle or one motorized recreational vehicle.
                 A facility engaged in research and development of engineering and product
RESEARCH &       development and manufacturing in technologically intensive fields including,
DEVELOPMENT      but not limited to, medical and biomedical fields, information systems,
FACILITY:        computer software, and telecommunications. Supportive administrative and
                 corporate functions may be accessory uses to this use.
RESIDE/          Living or dwelling in a certain place permanently or for a considerable
RESIDENCE:       length of time; a fixed and permanent dwelling-place.
RESIDENTIAL      Any structure or improvement upon real property used or suitable for the
UNITS:           habitation of people.
                 Any person whom the citing official determines is responsible for causing,
                 maintaining, permitting, or allowing a violation of this chapter, chapters
                 11,
RESPONSIBLE      12, and/or
PERSON:          13 of this code. The term responsible person includes but is not limited to:
                 any person who has an ownership or possessory interest in real or personal
                 property; any agent thereof with actual or apparent authority, possession or
                 control of real or personal property; or any other person who creates,
                 maintains, permits or allows a violation of this code.
                 Establishments primarily engaged in providing food services to patrons who
                 order and are served while seated (i.e., waiter/waitress service) and pay
                 after eating. Food services may include the ordering and serving of
RESTAURANT -     alcoholic beverages. These establishments may have indoor and outdoor
FULL SERVICE:    seating to provide this type of food service to patrons in combination
                 providing carryout services or presenting live non-theatrical entertainment.
                 Full-service restaurants are permitted to provide walk-up windows within the
                 downtown districts.
                 Establishments primarily engaged in providing food services (except snack
                 and nonalcoholic beverage bars) where patrons generally order or select
                 items and pay before eating. Food and drink may be consumed on premises,
RESTAURANT -     taken out, or delivered to the customer s location. Some establishments in
LIMITED SERVICE: this industry may provide these food services in combination with selling
                 alcoholic beverages. Limited-service restaurants may include walk-up, drive-
                 in, drive-up, and/or drive-through services; indoor and/or outdoor seating.
                 Buffets and food halls/cafeterias are included in this definition.
                 Establishments primarily engaged in (1) preparing and/or serving a specialty
                 snack, such as ice cream, frozen yogurt, bagels, doughnuts, pretzels,
RESTAURANT -     cookies, or popcorn, or (2) serving nonalcoholic beverages, such as coffee,
SNACK AND        juices, teas, or sodas for consumption on or near the premises. These
NONALCOHOLIC     establishments may carry and sell a combination of snacks, nonalcoholic
BEVERAGE BARS:   beverages, and other related products (e.g., coffee beans, mugs, coffee
                 makers) but generally promote and sell a unique snack or nonalcoholic
                 beverage. Snack and nonalcoholic beverage bars may include walk-up, drive-
                 up, drive-in, and drive-through services
RESTORATION:     The replication or reconstruction of a building s original architectural
                 features.
RETAIL SALES -   Establishments less than or equal to 5,000 square feet.
BOUTIQUE:
RETAIL SALES -   Establishments greater than 5,000 square feet and up to 10,000 square feet.
LIMITED:
RETAIL SALES -   Establishments greater than 10,000 square feet and up to 30,000 square feet.
SEMI - LIMITED:
RETAIL SALES -   Establishments greater than 30,000 square feet and up to 80,000 square feet.
GENERAL:
RETAIL SALES -   Establishments with floor areas of approximately eighty thousand (80,000) to
BIG BOX:         two hundred thousand (200,000) square feet.
                 A lot or parcel used by an authorized dealership that is primarily in the
RETAIL SALES -   business of selling new passenger vehicles or motorcycles. A building
AUTOMOTIVE       housing a sales office, showroom, and repair/service area may be included as
(NEW):           part of the dealership. The dealership may also sell used passenger vehicles
                 or motorcycles and provide rental and/or leasing services.
RETAIL SALES -   A lot or parcel used for the sale of used passenger vehicles or motorcycles.
AUTOMOTIVE       All passenger vehicles or motorcycles for sale shall be easily accessible
(USED):          and shall be in operating condition.
RETAIL SALES -   A retail establishment that includes the sale and dispensing of gasoline or
WITH GASOLINE:   diesel.
                 The use of a building or site for the retail sale of any combustible or
                 explosive composition, or any substance or combination of substances, or
RETAIL SALES -   article prepared for the purpose of producing a visible or audible effect by
FIREWORKS:       combustion, explosion, deflagration or detonation, including items
                 classified as common or special fireworks by the United States bureau of
                 explosives or contained in the regulations of the USDOT and designated as
                 United Nations (UN) 0335 1.3G or UN 0336 1.4G.
RETAIL SALES -   A temporary stand or tent from which common non-aerial fireworks are sold
FIREWORKS STAND: and/or offered for sale. Temporary fireworks stand require a fireworks
                 permit to be obtained from the City Clerk s office.
                 The use of a site for the sale and/or rental of tools, trucks, tractors,
RETAIL SALES -   construction equipment, heavy equipment, agricultural implements, or similar
LARGE EQUIPMENT  industrial equipment. This definition does include some minor ancillary
SALES AND        storage and serving of equipment, but storage and servicing shall not
RENTAL:          account for more than 20% of the primary use. See also definition of
                 Equipment Repair and Services - Large .
RETAIL SALES -   An establishment for either retail or wholesale sales of packaged liquor and
LIQUOR STORE:    alcohol and no consumption takes place on site; operated and regulated by
                 the State of Idaho, per Title 23 of Idaho State Statute.
RETAIL SALES -   The growing, cultivation, storage, and sale of garden plants, flowers,
NURSERY:         trees, shrubs, and fertilizers, as well as the sale of garden tools and
                 similar accessory and ancillary products, to the public.
                 A lot or parcel used by an authorized dealer/dealership that is primarily in
RETAIL SALES -   the business of selling new and/or used motorhomes, boats, trailers, ATV s,
RECREATIONAL     dirt bikes, UTV s, and related equipment, parts, and accessories. A building
VEHICLES:        housing a sales office, showroom, and repair/service area may be included as
                 part of the dealership. The dealership may also provide rental and/or
                 leasing services.
                 A lot or parcel of land used for the sale of tiny homes, modular buildings,
                 sheds, accessory structures, manufactured homes, mobile homes, other
RETAIL SALES -   products and equipment not specifically included and defined under other
SALES LOTS:      land use categories within this chapter. See also definition of Retails
                 Sales - Automotive (new), Retail Sales - Automotive (used), Retail Sales -
                 Recreational Vehicles, Retail Sales - Truck Sales, and Retail Sales - Large
                 Equipment Sales and Rental.
                 Retail sales of previously used merchandise, such as clothing, furniture,
                 appliances, household goods, sporting goods, recreational equipment, or
RETAIL SALES -   other merchandise that is in decent condition or has been restored or
SECONDHAND/      reconditioned to a clean and usable condition. This definition excludes the
THRIFT STORES:   sale of used farm or construction equipment, junk dealers, scrap/dismantling
                 yards, sale of used cars or other vehicles, or pawn shops, but shall include
                 antique, vintage, and consignment stores.
                 A group of commercial retail and restaurant type establishments planned,
RETAIL SALES -   constructed, and managed as a total entity, with customer and employee
SHOPPING CENTER: parking provided on site, provision for goods delivery separated from
                 customer access, aesthetic considerations and protection from the elements,
                 and landscaping and signage in accordance with an approved master sign plan.
RETAIL SALES -   A shopping center where stores front on both sides of a pedestrian way,
SHOPPING MALL:   which may be enclosed or open.
RETAIL SALES -   A business or facility that sells and installs tires and offers tire
TIRE SHOP:       repairs. Some accessory vehicle maintenance and services may be offered as
                 an incidental use.
                 An establishment for either retail or wholesale sales of loose tobacco,
RETAIL SALES -   plants, cigars, cigarettes, pipes, vaporizing or e-cigarettes, other smoking
TOBACCO / VAPE   devices for burning tobacco, and the oils and products associated with the
SHOP:            use of vaping equipment and smoking accessories. The use includes, but is
                 not limited to, hookah bars and hookah lounges.
RETAIL SALES -   The sale of heavy-duty vehicles primarily designed for the transportation of
TRUCK SALES      cargo and materials over a long distance. Truck sales often involve the
(COMMERCIAL /    assembly of chassis and cabs. (see also definition of Vehicles: Commercial
FREIGHT):        Truck/Vehicles).
REZONE:          To change the City of Caldwell zoning classification of particular lots or
                 parcels of land.
RIDING SCHOOL    Any place that has available for hire, boarding, and/or riding instruction,
(ACADEMY) OR     any horse, pony, donkey, mule, or burro, or similar animal; or any place
STABLE:          that regularly buys, sells, or trains the above animals, including a small
                 racetrack, trotting track, or rodeo.
                 A nonprofit or for-profit home providing food and shelter to three (3) or
ROOMING /        more people, but not more than twelve (12) people who are not members of the
BOARDING HOUSE:  householder s family, excepting that caring for foster children is not
                 included in this definition.
                 An informal pre-application meeting scheduled through the planning and
                 zoning department wherein staff from the fire department, engineering
                 department, building department and planning and zoning department are
ROUND TABLE      present to provide comments, ordinance requirements, code requirements,
MEETING:         policies, and standards to applicants relative to proposed projects. The
                 round table meeting is not a formal plan review and information presented by
                 staff in the round table meeting may change upon formal plan review and/or
                 when more details become available.
                 Routine maintenance includes such activities as painting an existing
ROUTINE          building the same color, gutter repair, repairing or replacing broken or
MAINTENANCE:     damaged materials with the same existing materials, replacing roof shingles
                 or lighting to match the existing that will not change the building s
                 appearance.
                 A building where instruction is given and operated as a commercial
SCHOOLS -        enterprise. This includes but is not limited to uses such as driver s
COMMERCIAL:      education services, tutoring, and private educational assistance agencies.
                 This definition does not include preschools, Montessori schools, and the
                 like.
SCHOOLS/         Any building or part thereof that is designed, constructed, or used for
EDUCATIONAL      education, the use of which meets state requirements for elementary or
FACILITY,        secondary education, and which does not secure a major part of its funding
PRIVATE:         from any governmental agency; does not include homeschools.
SCHOOLS/         Any building or part thereof that is designed, constructed, or used for
EDUCATIONAL      education, the use of which meets state requirements for elementary or
FACILITY,        secondary education, and which secures a major part of its funding from any
PUBLIC:          governmental agency (including charter schools).
SCHOOLS - POST   Post secondary schools include colleges, universities and professional
SECONDARY:       schools; technical, trade, and vocational schools; business schools and
                 computer and management training; and fine arts schools and studios.
                 Any building or part thereof that is designed, constructed, or used for
SCHOOLS -        education, the use of which meets state requirements for elementary or
PRIMARY AND      secondary education. Primary and Secondary schools may be private or public
SECONDARY:       as defined as Schools/Educational Facility, Private and Schools/Educational
                 Facility, Public .
                 An ancillary building or structure occupied by a watchperson employed for
SECURITY GUARD   the purpose of providing security to a primary use and excludes home
QUARTERS:        occupations as defined herein. Security guard quarters may be integrated
                 within the primary business structure or may be separate from the business
                 structure. Security guard quarters are not used as dwelling units.
                 A line, parallel to the respective lot line, which defines the distance
SETBACK LINE:    between a building s outermost edge of the outermost foundation wall and any
                 lot line.
                 An accessory structure or building used primarily for storage purposes
SHED:            (dwelling and human habitation is strictly prohibited) which conforms to
                 section
                 10-12-03-1 of this chapter.
                 A building or space that supplements homeless people when the shelter they
SHELTER - DAY:   are staying in only offers shelter on an overnight basis. Case management,
                 laundry facilities, shower facilities, meals and basic hygiene are often
                 provided.
                 A building or facility providing temporary accommodation and support to
                 survivors of domestic violence, human trafficking, and sexual exploitation.
                 with or without their minor children, or to survivors of human trafficking.
                 Such shelter shall be operated by a non-profit, charitable, or religious
SHELTER -        agency. For confidentiality and security of their locations, such shelters
EMERGENCY:       shall be permitted by-right in certain zoning districts. Meals and
                 wraparound supportive services may be offered. This definition does not
                 include transitional housing facilities as defined in this article, nor does
                 it include substance abuse/recovery facilities, mental health or behavioral
                 facilities, or similar.
                 A building or space, the primary purpose of which is to provide overnight
                 shelter to homeless persons. Accommodation is provided on a temporary basis,
SHELTER -        meaning that the facility is intended to serve as a refuge and a bridge
HOMELESS         between homelessness and residency in a fixed location. Such facility may
(overnight):     also provide accessory support services such as food, hygiene, laundry, and
                 staff offices; as well as meeting rooms for counseling, job training, and
                 referrals to state, local or other agencies and organizations.
                 An indoor facility specifically designed to include impenetrable walls,
SHOOTING RANGE - floors, and ceilings, adequate ventilation, lighting systems, and acoustical
INDOOR:          treatment for sound attenuation for the discharging of firearms or archery
                 at targets within a building for sport or recreation. Not an amusement
                 center facility.
SHOOTING RANGE   Land used for the outdoor discharging of firearms or archery for sport or
(OUTDOORS):      recreation.
SHRUB:           A multiple stemmed, woody plant whose height at maturity is between three
                 (3) and fifteen feet (15').
SIGN - ABANDONED A sign that no longer identifies an ongoing business, service, location,
SIGN:            product, idea or activity conducted on the property for which the sign is
                 intended to refer.
                 A sign employing actual motion, the illusion of motion, or light and/or
                 color changes achieved through mechanical, electrical, or electronic means.
                 Animated signs include (A) Environmentally Activated: Animated signs or
                 devices motivated by wind, thermal changes, or other natural environmental
                 input. Includes spinners, pinwheels, pennant strings, and/or other devices
                 or displays that respond to naturally occurring external motivation; (B)
                 Mechanically Activated: Animated signs characterized by repetitive motion
                 and/or rotation activated by a mechanical system powered by electric motors
                 or other mechanically induced means; and (C) Electrically Activated:
SIGN - ANIMATED  Animated signs producing the illusion of movement by means of electronic,
SIGN:            electrical, or electromechanical input and/or illumination capable of
                 simulating movement through employment of flashing where the repetitive
                 cycle in which the period of illumination is either the same as or less than
                 the period of non- illumination, or through patterned illusionary movement
                 by which illumination is characterized by simulated movement through
                 alternate or sequential activation of various illuminated elements for the
                 purpose of producing repetitive light patterns designed to appear in some
                 form of constant motion. For the purposes of this ordinance, flashing will
                 not be defined as occurring if the cyclical period between on-off phases of
                 illumination exceeds four (4) seconds.
SIGN - AWNING    A sign displayed on or attached flat against the surface or surfaces of an
SIGN:            awning.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d91e966eb643f10f466c7d7b166e0181c6c38ab7/IMAGES/0-0-0-
2435.jpg]
SIGN - BANNER /  Any sign of lightweight fabric or similar material that is mounted to a
FEATHER FLAG     building or other structure at one or more edges, but not including those
SIGN:            representing a nation, state or other officially recognized public body or
                 institution, or any legitimate public purpose.
SIGN - BENCH /   A flat, professionally prepared sign permanently fastened to back support/
SHELTER SIGN:    rests or walls or painted directly on the surface of a pedestrian
                 transportation shelter or bench.
SIGN - BILLBOARD See Sign - Pole Sign; Freeway Oriented.
SIGN:
SIGN -           A sign, whose message copy or content can be changed manually on the display
CHANGEABLE COPY  surface. Changeable copy signs are not internally illuminated and have no
SIGN:            electrical activation or animation. For electrically activated and
                 internally illuminated changeable copy signs, see Electronic Message Center.
                 A sign which is shabby, neglected, or in disrepair, or which fails to be in
                 the same form as originally constructed, or which fails to perform its
                 intended function of conveying a message. Any sign which in the opinion of
                 the city has any of the following characteristics is considered a
                 dilapidated or deteriorated sign; (A) Where elements of the surface or
                 background can be seen, as viewed from the normal viewing distance, to have
SIGN -           portions of the finished material or paint flaked, broken off, or missing,
DILAPIDATED OR   or otherwise not in harmony with the rest of the surface; (B) Where the
DETERIORATED     structural support or frame members are visibly bent, broken, dented, or
SIGN:            torn; (C) Where the panel is visibly cracked, or in the case of wood and
                 similar products, splintered in such a way as to constitute an unsightly or
                 harmful condition; (D) Where the sign or its elements are twisted or leaning
                 or at angles other than those at which it was originally erected (such as
                 may result from being blown or the failure of structural support); (E) Where
                 the message or wording can no longer be clearly read by a person with normal
                 eyesight under normal viewing conditions; or (F) Where the sign is torn,
                 ripped, faded, or fallen into ruin or decay, as from age, wear, or neglect.
SIGN - DOUBLE    A sign with two faces, back-to-back.
FACED:
SIGN - DYNAMIC   Includes searchlights, beacons, strobe lights, scintillating lights, and
LIGHTING:        similar lights.
                 Includes signs with moving parts such as rotating panels or changing lights.
SIGN - DYNAMIC   This definition includes all moving, revolving, intermittent, oscillating,
SIGNAGE:         animated, or flashing signs, but does not include electronic message board
                 signs as defined herein.
                 An electrically activated changeable sign whose variable message and/or
SIGN -           graphic presentation capability can be electronically programmed by computer
ELECTRONIC       from a remote location. Also known as an EMB. EMBs typically use light
MESSAGE CENTER   emitting diodes (LEDs) to electronically change the image or message
OR SIGN (EMC):   displayed on the message board. Rotating electronic message center signs are
                 prohibited. The following definitions are applicable to Electronic Message
                 Center signs:
SIGN -
ELECTRONIC       The amount of time a message and/or graphic is displayed.
MESSAGE CENTER;
DISPLAY TIME:
SIGN -           A mode of message transition accomplished by varying light intensity or
ELECTRONIC       pattern, in which the first message gradually appears to dissipate and lose
MESSAGE CENTER;  legibility with the gradual appearance and legibility of the second message.
DISSOLVE:
SIGN -
ELECTRONIC
MESSAGE CENTER;  A frame effect in which the illusion of motion and/or animation is used.
DYNAMIC FRAME
EFFECT:
SIGN -           A mode of message transition accomplished by varying the light intensity,
ELECTRONIC       where the first message gradually reduces intensity to the point of not be
MESSAGE CENTER;  legible and the subsequent message gradually increases intensity to the
FADE:            point of legibility.
SIGN -
ELECTRONIC       A complete, static display screen on an Electronic Message Sign.
MESSAGE CENTER;
FRAME:
SIGN -
ELECTRONIC       A visual effect applied to a single frame.
MESSAGE CENTER;
FRAME EFFECT:
SIGN -
ELECTRONIC       A mode of message transition in which the message appears to move vertically
MESSAGE CENTER;  across the display surface.
SCROLL:
SIGN -
ELECTRONIC       A visual effect used to change from one message to another.
MESSAGE CENTER;
TRANSITION:
SIGN -
ELECTRONIC       A mode of message transition in which the message appears to move
MESSAGE CENTER;  horizontally across the display surface.
TRAVEL:
SIGN -           A sign principally supported by one or more columns, poles, or braces placed
FREESTANDING:    in or upon the ground. Freestanding signs include ground signs, post signs,
                 pole signs, monument signs, and similar.
SIGN - HANGING   A small, pedestrian-scale sign that is hung or suspended from the underside
AND SUSPENDED    of a horizontal plane surface and is supported by such surface.
SIGNS:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d91e966eb643f10f466c7d7b166e0181c6c38ab7/IMAGES/0-0-0-
2437.jpg]
                 Any sign that is expanded or inflated to its full dimensions or is supported
                 internally by gases contained within the sign, or sign parts, at a pressure
                 greater than atmospheric pressure. Without limiting the foregoing, balloons,
SIGN -           inflatable figures, inflatable objects, or similar devices that meet the
INFLATABLES:     definition of signs and are inflated or supported internally at a pressure
                 greater than atmospheric pressure shall be considered inflatable signs, but
                 balloons or inflatable figures that are or can be filled with three cubic
                 feet or less of air or gas, are less than 18 inches in height, and typically
                 hand-held shall not be subject to these regulations.
SIGN -           A sign that is affected by an artificial light source that is not contained
ILLUMINATION,    within the sign itself.
EXTERNAL:
                 Illumination of a sign from any light source that is concealed or contained
SIGN -           within the sign and becomes visible in darkness through a translucent
ILLUMINATION,    surface, except for illumination, punch through letter signs. This includes
INTERNAL:        characters, letters, figures, designs or outlines which is illuminated by
                 gas filled luminous tubes, such as neon, argon or fluorescent.
SIGN - MONUMENT  A freestanding sign with a continuous at grade base that is constructed from
SIGN:            durable materials such as stone, brick, stucco, or a combination of these
                 materials.
SIGN -           A sign, which was legally installed by permit in conformance with all
NONCONFORMING    municipal sign regulations and ordinances in effect at the time of its
SIGN:            installation, but which may no longer comply with subsequently enacted laws
                 and ordinances having jurisdiction relative to the sign.
SIGN - PERMANENT A sign which is intended for a permanent period of display. Any sign that is
SIGN:            not considered a temporary sign shall be considered permanent.
SIGN - POLE      A freestanding sign erected on a pole, poles or pylon independent of any
SIGN:            building or structure and that does not fit the definition of a monument
                 sign. Also see definition of Pole Sign; Freeway-Oriented .
                 A freestanding pole sign located within 500' of the I-84 interstate right-
SIGN -POLE SIGN; of-way, with its sign face parallel to, perpendicular to, angle toward, or
FREEWAY-         otherwise readable from the freeway interstate right-of-way. They are
ORIENTED:        specifically oriented to the traffic on the interstate rather than other
                 state or local roadways.
SIGN -           A sign, other than a wall sign, that projects more than eighteen (18) inches
PROJECTING:      from a building face or building wall or from a structure whose primary
                 purpose is other than the support of a sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d91e966eb643f10f466c7d7b166e0181c6c38ab7/IMAGES/0-0-0-
2439.jpg]
SIGN - PUBLIC    A sign erected by a public authority, or by a public service organization
REGULATION AND   granted permission by a public authority, within a public right-of-way, or
INFORMATION      on private property when required by law, and intended to control traffic,
SIGN:            direct, identify or inform the public, or provide a needed public service as
                 determined by the rules and regulations of the sponsoring public authority.
SIGN - REVOLVING A sign that has the capability to revolve three hundred and sixty (360)
SIGN:            degrees about an axis.
SIGN - ROOF      Any sign which is erected on or above the roofline of a building or
SIGN:            structure, and which receives any or all of its support from such roof.
SIGN - ROTATING  A sign in which the sign itself or any portion of the sign moves in a
SIGN:            revolving or similar manner.
SIGN - SANDWICH  A temporary sign not anchored to the ground with no more than two (2) panels
BOARD / A-FRAME  / faces, each joined at their top and connected by a hinge, allowing them to
SIGN:            be opened and closed like a book. A-frames are portable and can be removed
                 and/or repositioned without mechanical aid.
                 The area of the sign that includes the smallest rectangle(s) within which
SIGN - SIGN FACE sign words or other sign copy components can be enclosed, except pole signs
/ COPY AREA:     where the sign face includes the area of the entire sign structure above the
                 pole on which the sign is mounted.
SIGN -           A sign located on each side of any entry road leading into a subdivision,
SUBDIVISION /    planned unit development, master planned development, business park, or
DEVELOPMENT      industrial park.
ENTRY SIGN:
                 A sign which is designed to be used only for messages of a transitory or
SIGN - TEMPORARY temporary nature and displayed for a limited period of time. Portable signs
SIGN:            or any sign not permanently embedded in the ground, or not permanently
                 affixed to a building or sign structure that is permanently embedded in the
                 ground, are considered temporary signs. See also definition of "Temporary".
SIGN - TRAFFIC   Any sign that is designed and erected for the purpose of providing direction
DIRECTIONAL      and/or orientation for pedestrian or vehicular traffic to parking areas,
SIGN:            loading areas, or to portion of a building or site.
SIGN - UNSIGHTLY Any sign which is in whole or in part: weak, unsafe, broken, inferior or
SIGN:            old, torn, worn, faded or otherwise unpleasant or unattractive to look at.
                 Unsightly signs shall be prohibited and are considered a nuisance.
SIGN - VEHICLE / Any sign, whether permanent or temporary, attached to a trailer or vehicle
TRAILER SIGN:    that is parked along a public highway or street, or otherwise within the
                 right-of-way.
                 A sign erected parallel with the surface of a wall or painted on the surface
                 of the wall and not extending more than eighteen (18) inches from the
                 building or structure wall. Also includes signs affixed to architectural
SIGN - WALL OR   projections that project from a building provided the copy area of such
FASCIA SIGN:     signs remains on a parallel plane to the face of the building facade or to
                 the face or faces of the architectural projection to which it is affixed.
                 Murals and art shall obtain separate review and approval through the
                 application of a Mural / Art permit
                 A sign, designed, constructed, installed and managed by the city or city
                 designee, and located on city property or right-of-way placed by the city
SIGN -           that guides the traveling public to key civic, cultural, visitor, and
WAYFINDING       recreational destinations; educational, scholastic or artistic events;
SIGNAGE:         community or public interest activities or destinations; designated or
                 recognized civic routes or trails; areas of historical or archaeological
                 significance; or trade shows, events and festivals.
                 A sign painted, mounted, or affixed to the surface of a window, including
SIGN - WINDOW    windows within doors or any sign sufficiently near the inside of a window as
SIGN:            to make such sign clearly and/or intentionally visible, and easily read, by
                 motorists and pedestrians outside of the building.
SOFTSCAPE        Bark, wood chips, mulch, and similar materials.
MATERIALS:
                 A use which requires review, appraisal, and approval with conditions by the
                 commission or hearing examiner, in a public hearing format. Approval must be
SPECIAL USE:     obtained, and the conditions of approval must be completed before such a use
                 can be implemented. See section
                 10-03-04 of this article for special use permit procedures and standards.
STANDARDS:       The term "standards" shall mean mandatory regulations. Standards are
                 indicated by the use of the terms "shall" and "must".
STEEP SLOPES:    Any portion of a development site where the natural grade of the land has a
                 slope of thirty percent (30%) or greater.
                 An offset or step-like recession in the profile of a building, typically at
                 upper story levels in order to mitigate differences in height from adjacent
STEP BACK:       structures and to reduce the mass of a building. Buildings may be required
                 to follow a prescribed inclined plane from the curb on the opposite side of
                 the street.
                 A facility containing individual, secure, and private storage spaces of
STORAGE - SELF-  varying sizes that are leased or sold. These types of facilities generally
SERVICE; INDOOR: have climate-controlled units, have walk-up access within an enclosed
                 building, and may be multi-story.
                 A facility containing individual, secure, and private storage spaces of
STORAGE - SELF-  varying sizes that are leased or rented or sold. These types of facilities
SERVICE;         generally contain multiple single-story buildings with mostly drive-up units
TRADITIONAL:     which have natural ventilation but are not climate-controlled and may also
                 contain areas for the storage of RVs or other type vehicles.
                 That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and the
STORY:           surface of the floor above it, or if there is no floor above it, then the
                 space between the floor and the ceiling next above it and including
                 basements used for the principal use.
                 Any street, existing or proposed, with a primary purpose of carrying through
STREET,          traffic. A general term that, when referenced herein, shall include
ARTERIAL:        expressways, major and minor arterial streets, interstate, state or county
                 highways, and other arterial classifications having regional continuity.
STREET,          Any street whether existing or proposed, with a primary purpose to intercept
COLLECTOR:       traffic from integrating local streets and carrying that traffic to an
                 arterial street.
STREET, LOCAL:   Any public street, other than an arterial or collector, which provides
                 access to abutting property and principally serves local traffic.
                 An access roadway which provides both access and street frontage for
STREET, PRIVATE: individual lots. Private streets are owned and maintained by private
                 individual(s) or entities and not by governmental entities.
STREET LANDSCAPE A permanent landscaped area located along property boundaries that have
BUFFER:          frontage on a classified public roadway or are adjacent to right-of-way.
STREET TREE      The list of acceptable trees to be located within the public right-of-way
LIST:            (see the Treasure Valley Tree Selection Guide).
                 An object constructed or installed by man, including, but not limited to,
                 buildings, the use of which requires location on the ground or attachment to
                 something having a fixed location on the ground and typically requires a
STRUCTURE:       building permit to construct. Structures include, but are not limited to,
                 buildings, walls, fences, and billboards. For the purpose of this article,
                 structures shall not include Wireless Communication Facilities as defined
                 herein.
SUBDIVISION:     See definition of "subdivision" in
                 Chapter 11 of this code.
                 A water filled enclosure, permanently constructed or portable, having a
SWIMMING POOL:   depth of more than eighteen inches (18") below the level of the surrounding
                 land, or an above-surface pool, having a depth of more than thirty inches
                 (30"), designed, used, and maintained for swimming.
                 An establishment whose principal business activity is placing designs,
                 letters, figures, symbols or other marks upon or under the skin of any
TATTOO / BODY    person; using ink or other substances that result in the permanent
PIERCING STUDIO: coloration of skin by means of the use of needles or other instrument
                 designed to contact or puncture skin; or creating an opening in the body of
                 a person for the purpose of inserting jewelry or other decoration.
TAXIDERMY SHOP:  An establishment specializing in the preservation and mounting of deceased
                 animals, typically for the purpose of display or decoration.
                 A structure, building, sign, or use not having or requiring permanent
                 attachment to the ground nor a use intended to permanent in nature,
TEMPORARY:       typically erected or commenced for a consecutive period of six (6) months or
                 less within one calendar year, unless specifically identified elsewhere in
                 this chapter.
                 Any activity on a site operating for a limited time of operation as
TEMPORARY USE:   described and in accordance with the Temporary Use section, section
                 10-12-03-34 of this chapter.
THERAPY /        A facility that provides either short term or long term, inpatient or
REHABILITATION   outpatient care, treatment, and/or rehabilitation services for persons
FACILITY:        recovering from illness, disease, or injury who do not require continued
                 hospitalization.
                 Rounding, stubbing, or any other term that can be described as severe
                 cutting back of the central leader or limbs within a tree crown to buds,
TOPPING:         stubs, or laterals not large enough to assume a terminal role as defined in
                 ANSI A300. This removes the natural canopy, disfigures the tree, and
                 increases disease and insect infestation.
                 A small, improved playground specifically designed for toddlers and young
TOT LOT:         children and equipped with age-appropriate equipment to ensure safety and
                 provide a stimulating environment for developmental play.
                 A mobile structure mounted on a chassis and wheels, towed or hauled by
TRAILER:         another vehicle, and used for carrying materials, goods, or objects, or as
                 temporary offices. Use of a trailer as a temporary office shall comply with
                 the temporary use section of this chapter.
TRANSIT-ORIENTED A development pattern characterized by a mix of uses surrounding a transit
DEVELOPMENT      platform where streets have a high level of connectivity, blocks are small,
(TOD):           and streetscape, buildings, and uses cater to the pedestrian.
TRANSIT STATION: A building or structure or area used for the pick-up, drop-off or waiting of
                 passengers for bus, rail, or other forms of public transportation.
                 An array of tools and techniques designed to ensure compatibility between
                 adjoining land uses that may differ by type and in intensity. Land use
TRANSITIONS -    transitions include but are not limited to designing and adapting the form,
LAND USE:        scale, and massing of a building to take into consideration neighboring
                 buildings and land uses, and the use of landscaping, berms, fences, walls,
                 or any combination of these, to buffer and screen a more intense land use
                 from an adjacent, less intense land use.
                 A document created by public, private, and non-profit stakeholders engaged
TREASURE VALLEY  in growing, planting, planning for and managing the region s community
TREE SELECTION   forest resources. The Guide answers the most commonly asked questions about
GUIDE (the "Tree appropriate tree selection in a number of different landscape locations and
Selection Guide" applications throughout the Treasure Valley. The Guide is available at the
or the "Guide"): Caldwell Planning and Zoning offices, or online at tvcanopy.net/tree-
                 selection.
                 Small trees which normally do not reach over twenty-five feet (25') through
TREES - CLASS I: thirty feet (30') in height and width. The spacing is twenty feet (20' to
                 thirty feet (30') between trees. Class I trees are good for under power
                 lines or smaller planting areas.
                 Usually considered medium sized trees mostly planted for their shade and
TREES - CLASS    excellent use in landscape and parkway plantings. Reaching thirty feet (30')
II:              to forty feet (40') and over in height and width. Spacing thirty feet (30')
                 to forty feet (40') feet between trees.
                 Many are long lived and attain large height and trunk diameter. When
TREES - CLASS    selecting a tree from this class, be sure to have ample room to accommodate
III:             it at maturity. May reach seventy feet (70') to one hundred feet (100') in
                 height and width at maturity. Spacing forty feet (40') to sixty feet (60')
                 between trees.
                 There is hereby created and established a Shade Tree Committee for the City
                 of Caldwell, which shall consist of six members who reside within the city.
TREE COMMITTEE:  The committee shall be comprised of five at-large members and one member who
                 shall be a member of the Parks and Recreation Commission. Members of the
                 Tree Committee shall be nominated by the Mayor and confirmed by a majority
                 of City Council members.
                 Any building, premises, land, or business which includes the dispensing of
                 motor fuel or other petroleum products directly into commercial vehicles and
                 the sale of accessories or equipment for commercial vehicles and which may
TRUCK STOP:      include personal hygiene facilities and/or restaurant facilities primarily
                 for the use of commercial vehicle crews. May also include facilities
                 providing for the short-term parking of commercial vehicles to allow drivers
                 to rest.
                 Universal design, also called barrier-free design, focuses on making the
                 house safe and accessible for everyone, regardless of age, physical ability,
UNIVERSAL        or stature. Examples of universal design in housing include no-step entry,
DESIGN:          one-story living, wide doorways, wide hallways, and extra floor space.
                 Additionally, universally designed fixtures (such as non-slip bathroom
                 surfaces, lighting, and levers/handles) are incorporated to make homes
                 accessible to those with a variety of mobility and dexterity.
                 A type of farm operation where the emphasis is on customers harvesting their
U-PICK FARM:     own fruits, vegetables, flowers, or other crops directly from the fields.
                 Also known as Pick-Your-Own (PYO) farm operation.
                 The purpose or activity for which land, structures or buildings are
USE:             designed, arranged, or intended or for which land, structures or buildings
                 are occupied or maintained.
UTILITY          An easement established for the placement of sewer, water, storm drainage,
EASEMENT:        and/or other utility conveyances such as gas, cable, and telephone.
                 A waiver to provide ease and relief from the bulk and placement requirements
                 of the zoning ordinance as to one or more of the following items only:
                 Minimum lot area (square feet); Minimum lot width; Minimum lot frontage;
VARIANCE:        Minimum front yard setback; Minimum rear yard setback; Minimum interior side
                 yard setback; Minimum street side yard setback; Maximum building height;
                 Minimum required parking spaces; Any other zoning ordinance provision
                 affecting the size or shape of a structure or building or the placement of a
                 structure or building upon a lot, or the size of lots.
                 A device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
                 transported or drawn upon a highway or street excepting devices moved
VEHICLE:         exclusively by human power or used upon stationary rails or tracks. Examples
                 include, but are not limited to, the following: cars, trucks, motorcycles,
                 RVs, trailers, campers, boats, buses, tractors, pop tents/trailers, ATVs,
                 scooters and vans.
                 A commercial truck/vehicles is defined as (A) Any solid waste collection
                 vehicle, tractor truck/semitrailer or tractor truck/trailer combination (or
                 part thereof), dump truck, concrete mixer, commercial vehicle step vans,
                 buses, stake trucks, tank trucks, commercial or construction equipment,
                 whether located on public or private property or on a truck, trailer, or
VEHICLE -        semitrailer; (B) Any trailer, semitrailer, or other vehicle in which food or
COMMERCIAL TRUCK beverages are stored or sold; (C) Any trailer or semitrailer used for
/ VEHICLE:       transporting landscaping or lawn care equipment whether or not such trailer
                 or semitrailer is attached to another vehicle; (D) Any taxicab or limousine
                 (s); (E) Any truck or vehicle registered as a commercial vehicle; (F) Any
                 other trailer, semitrailer, or similar used for commercial purposes; or (G)
                 Vehicles exceeding a maximum gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of 15,000
                 pounds (excluding pickup, dually-style trucks, and SUV type vehicles used
                 for residential purposes).
VEHICLES - OFF-  Those vehicles designed for use on a variety of non-improved surfaces and
ROAD:            including dune buggies and all-terrain vehicles (ATVs), dirt bikes,
                 snowmobiles, trail bikes and mopeds.
VEHICLE -        Those vehicles with no more than two (2) axles and/or four (4) wheels, not
PASSENGER:       more than four thousand five hundred (4,500) pounds in gross weight and
                 designed primarily for the transport of persons.
VICINITY MAP:    A type of map that displays a specific area and its surroundings.
                 A written notice to a responsible person issued by the citing official that
                 there exists a violation of chapters
VIOLATION        10,
WARNING/NOTICE:  11,
                 12, and/or
                 13 of this code with instructions on how to remedy said violation.
VINEYARD:        A site primarily utilized for the raising of grapes, where said grapes will
                 be utilized for the future production of wines.
                 A protected vision area established to ensure that drivers have an
                 unobstructed view as they come upon a driveway access, alleyway, or
                 intersection. Measuring from the projected intersection of the roadway edge
VISION TRIANGLE: a distance of forty feet (40') along each roadway edge and connecting the
                 two (2) points with a straight line defines the boundaries of a vision
                 triangle at the intersection of two (2) roads. The edge of the roadway shall
                 be defined as the back of curb or where the curb would be if no curb is
                 installed.
WALKABLE:        A distance of one-quarter (1/4) mile or within a five (5) to ten (10) minute
                 walk.
WATERWISE        Medians made of plants that naturally require water less often throughout
MEDIANS:         the growing season than most typical residential landscape plants.
                 Undesirable plant growth that is unkempt, unsightly, deleterious and/or
WEEDS:           injurious to the public. Weeds include noxious weeds, grasses, unkempt
                 bushes and any plant meeting this description. The Canyon County weed
                 control department keeps a list of weeds that are considered noxious.
WHOLESALE SALES, The use of a site for selling, distributing, or brokering merchandise to
GENERAL:         retailers, business users, or other wholesalers. This use can include
                 incidental retail sales to the public.
WHOLESALE SALES, The growth, cultivation, storage, and sale of garden plants, flowers, trees,
NURSERY:         and shrubs to landscapers, developers, builders, and retail nurseries.
WINERY/CIDERY:   A site that produces or manufactures wine, and/or ciders for wholesale or
                 retail consumption or distribution.
WINETASTING      A structure or building wherein the tasting, sampling, display and/or sales
ESTABLISHMENT:   of wine, cider, and/or beer takes place.
WIRELESS         A tower, steel monopole, or similar structures including wireless antenna
COMMUNICATIONS   equipment such as transmitters, repeaters, microwave dishes, horns, and
FACILITY - LARGE other types of equipment for the transmission or receipt of such signals, as
SCALE:           well as ground support structures, equipment buildings and parking areas.
WIRELESS         Antennas and equipment required for the operation and maintenance of small
COMMUNICATION    cells, fixed wireless antennas, and including distributed antenna systems
FACILITY - SMALL (DAS) installed on utility, traffic light, and signal poles in the public
SCALE:           right-of-way.
                 The area of a circle, centered about the center of the base of a Wireless
WIRELESS         Communication Facility (WCF), as defined herein, and whose radius is the
COMMUNICATIONS   height of the WCF when applied to a residential zone and one-half (1/2) the
FACILITY,        height when applied to a nonresidential zone, to include easement dimensions
AESTHETIC ZONE:  as part of the zone consideration. The purpose of the aesthetic zone is to
                 minimize visual obtrusiveness by relating setback distances to the height of
                 the tower.
WIRELESS         When referring to a tower or other structure, it means the distance measured
COMMUNICATION    from the finished grade of the platform or two feet (2') above the ground,
FACILITY HEIGHT: whichever height is the lesser, to the highest point on the tower or other
                 structure, including any antenna.
                 The process of landscaping, or gardening, that reduces or eliminates the
XERISCAPE: (not  need for irrigation (zeroscape is an often-mispronounced term for xeriscape,
zeroscape):      zeroscape refers to landscape treatments only containing rock materials with
                 limited design and no plantings).
YARD:            An open space that lies between the principal building or buildings and the
                 nearest lot line.
                 A space extending the full width of the lot between the main building and
                 the front lot line and measured perpendicular to the building at the closest
YARD - FRONT:    point to the front lot line. For residential lots, the front yard area shall
                 also include any additional yard areas between the furthest point of the
                 residence s front door and measured perpendicular from that point to the
                 front lot line.
                 A space extending across the full width of the lot between the principal
YARD - REAR:     building and the rear lot line, measured perpendicular to the building to
                 the closest point of the rear lot line.
                 A space extending from the front yard to the rear yard between the principal
YARD - SIDE:     building and the side lot line, measured perpendicular from the side lot
                 line to the closest point of the principal building.
ZEROSCAPE:       Zeroscape landscapes are made up of dirt/gravel and have zero plants.
                 Zeroscape landscaping is not permitted within the City of Caldwell.
ZONING:          The delineation of districts and the establishment of regulations governing
                 the use, placement, spacing, and size of land and buildings.
ZONING MAP:      The map or maps that are a part of the zoning ordinance and delineate the
                 boundaries of zone districts.
                 A place where animals are kept, often in a combination of indoor and outdoor
ZOO:             spaces, and exhibited to the public for educational, conservation, and/or
                 entertainment purposes. (Ord. 3576, 3-19-2024; amd. Ord. 3661, 4-21-2025)
 
ARTICLE 2: STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ALL ZONING DISTRICTS
Section
   
10-02-01      General Regulations
   
10-02-02      Access And Connectivity
   
10-02-03      Noxious Uses
   
10-02-04      Property and Building Maintenance
   
10-02-05      Off-Street Parking Standards
   
10-02-06      Sign Regulations
   
10-02-06-1   Purpose, Definitions and Terms
   
10-02-06-2   General Provisions
   
10-02-06-3   Exempted Signs
   
10-02-06-4   Prohibited Signs
   
10-02-06-5   Approval Of Sign Plans
   
10-02-06-6   Size, Height, And Measurement Computation
   
10-02-06-7   RS-1, RS-2, R-1, R-2, R-3, And T-N Districts; Sign Schedule
   
10-02-06-8   C-1, C-2, C-3, C-4, H-C, M-1, M-2, I-P Districts; Sign Schedule
   
10-02-06-9   D-CC, D-CB Districts; Sign Schedule
   
10-02-06-10   A-D, C-D, H-D, P-D Districts, Sign Schedule
   
10-02-06-11   Temporary Signs
   
10-02-06-12   Design Standards
   
10-02-06-13   Abandoned Signs
   
10-02-06-14   Enforcement
   
10-02-07      Fencing Regulations
   
10-02-08      Nonconforming Uses
   
10-02-09      Landscaping, Buffering and Screening
   
10-02-09-1   Purpose And Applicability
   
10-02-09-2   Landscape Plan Preparation, Requirements And Submittal
   
10-02-09-3   General Landscape Criteria And Installation Practices
   
10-02-09-4   Common Open Space Requirements And Standards
   
10-02-09-5   Street Landscape Buffers
   
10-02-09-6   Buffers Between Different Land Uses
   
10-02-09-7   Pathway Landscaping Standards
   
10-02-09-8   Parking Lot Landscaping
   
10-02-09-9   Screening
   
10-02-09-10   Waterwise Landscaping Standards
   
10-02-09-11   Landscape Maintenance
   
10-02-09-12   Vision Triangles
   
10-02-09-13   Irrigation
   
10-02-09-14   Landscaping In Stormwater Areas
   
10-02-09-15   Landscape Bonding
   
10-02-09-16   Violation, Penalty, Enforcement And Compliance
   
10-02-09-17   Appeals
   
10-02-10      Caldwell Tree Ordinance
   
10-02-10-1   Statement of Value
   
10-02-10-2   Purpose
   
10-02-10-3   Applicability
   
10-02-10-4   Standards
   
10-02-10-5   Jurisdiction
   
10-02-10-6   Duties and Powers Of The City Forester
   
10-02-10-7   Controller Responsibilities
   
10-02-10-8   Nuisances Designated
   
10-02-10-9   Nuisance Abatement
   
10-02-10-10   Damaging, Destroying or Topping Of Public Trees And Shrubs
   
10-02-10-11   Private Tree Service Fee Licensing and Certification
   
10-02-10-12   Licensee Responsibility
   
10-02-10-13   Permit Procedures for Individuals
   
10-02-10-14   Violations and Penalties
   
10-02-10-15   Tree Preservation and Mitigation
   
10-02-10-16   Planting Specifications
   
10-02-10-17   Recommended Street Tree List
   
10-02-10-18   Shrub
   
10-02-10-19   Not to Be Planted In Right-Of-Way
   
10-02-10-20   Dutch Elm Disease
10-02-01 GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   Applicability: The zoning district regulations and standards established in
this article shall apply to all zoning districts established in this chapter,
unless specifically stated otherwise in a specific article or section. (Ord.
3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-02 ACCESS AND CONNECTIVITY:
   (1)   Purpose: The purpose of this Section is to support the City’s access
and connectivity goals by providing comfortable walking, cycling, transit and
other active modes of transportation in new development and the redevelopment
of property.
   (2)   Applicability: Unless otherwise stated in this Code, all development
of vacant land, all construction of new structures, all modification of
existing structures, and the Subdivision of Land, and developments on parcels
shall comply with the standards of this Section.
   (3)   General Requirements: The following standards shall apply unless
otherwise waived by the City Council. The intent of these standards is to
provide safe and convenient access for bicyclists, pedestrians, and vehicles to
and from perimeter streets, parks, schools, public transit facilities, public
and private institutions to the maximum extent practicable; and to provide safe
and convenient access for bicyclists and pedestrians to and from existing and
proposed pathways and trails existing or designated on a Subdivision Plat, or
other adopted City plans.
      A.   Access to Streets and Neighboring Properties: The following
standards apply to any use and/or property that takes direct access to an
arterial and/or collector roadway. Prior to any new, expanded, or extended use
or development of the property:
         1.   Each lot shall have direct access to a public street or alley
that has been improved to applicable street standards and has been accepted,
dedicated to, and accepted by the City of Caldwell or the applicable
transportation agency.
         2.   Where direct access to a public arterial or collector roadway is
available, the applicant shall configure the internal site circulation plan to
take access from such public street.
         3.   Where direct access to a public street is not available, the
property owner may propose alternative access through a recorded joint cross-
access/ingress-egress easement with adjoining properties.
         4.   Sites shall be designed in such a way that allows for travel
within a development or subdivision, and to and from properties adjacent to
that land, without accessing the collector or arterial street network.
      B.   Americans with Disabilities Act:
         1.   Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”) and
other federal and state accessibility laws is the sole responsibility of the
property owner. Compliance with this Code does not assure compliance with the
ADA or any other federal or state accessibility laws or any regulations or
guidelines enacted or promulgated under or with respect to such laws. The city
is not responsible for enforcement of the ADA or any other federal or state
accessibility laws.
         2.   All developments shall comply with accessibility requirements
based on the most recent version of the International Building Code and the
International Code Council, or any future update of that document adopted by
the City of Caldwell.
      C.   Safe Routes and Connectivity to Schools: Residential and multi-
family subdivisions and/or developments within the “walk zone” of a school or
where no walk zone map exists, within a 1 ½ mile radius of a school, shall
provide safe and well-designed routes and crossings for children to bike or
walk from their home to school. Such routes shall include:
         1.   The shortest and safest routes.
         2.   Level, ADA accessible sidewalks with minimum cross slope where
sidewalks cross driveways. Sidewalk widths shall be determined by the
functional classification of the street.
         3.   Curb ramps in accordance with the latest ADA design standards.
         4.   Pathways that connect to schools where needed.
         5.   Crosswalk and/or protected crosswalks, as required by the city.
10-02-03 NOXIOUS USES:
   No area or structure in any district shall be used or occupied in any manner
creating dangerous, injurious, noxious or hazardous conditions to the
surrounding areas.
   (1)   Fire Hazard: Any activity involving the use or storage of flammable or
explosive materials shall be protected by adequate firefighting and fire
prevention equipment and by such safety devices as are normally used in the
handling of any such materials. Such hazards shall be kept removed from
adjacent activities to a distance that is compatible with the potential danger
involved as specified in the International Fire Code, and the National Fire
Protection Association publications.
   (2)   Radioactivity or Electrical Disturbance: No activity shall emit
harmful radioactivity at any point, or electrical disturbance adversely
affecting the operation of any equipment at any point other than that of the
creator of such disturbance, as regulated by the Idaho Radiation Control
Regulations and the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality (IDEQ).
   (3)   Air Pollution: Air pollution shall be subject to the requirements and
regulations established by the Idaho Department of Environmental Quality
(IDEQ).
   (4)   Erosion: No erosion shall be permitted that will carry objectionable
substances onto neighboring properties in accordance with this code and in
accordance with the Idaho State Erosion and Sediment Control Standards.
   (5)   Hazardous Materials: All hazardous material storage must comply with
the regulations and standards of the Fire Department and the adopted Fire
Codes.
   (6)   Enforcement: Violation of this section shall constitute a nuisance and
shall be enforceable under
Chapter 7, Article 11 of this code. Violations of
10-02-03 may also be enforceable under
10-03-13 of this chapter. (Ord. 3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-04 PROPERTY AND BUILDING MAINTENANCE:
   (1)   Purpose: This subsection shall be construed to secure its expressed
intent, which is to ensure public health, safety and welfare, to ensure
protection of property values, and to preserve the character and integrity of
the city.
   (2)   Applicability: These provisions shall apply to all existing
residential and non-residential structures and all existing premises and
constitute minimum requirements and standards for such premises and structures.
   (3)   Responsibility: The owner and/or occupant of the structure or premises
shall maintain the structures and the premises in compliance with the
requirements of this section.
      A.   Vacant Lots: Every owner of any vacant lot has the duty to keep the
lot clean and free from garbage, litter, standing stagnant water, debris,
parked motor vehicles other than those parked in a lawfully existing parking or
loading facility, and all things causing the property to be detrimental to the
public health, safety, welfare or to the aesthetics of the neighborhoods and
properties in the vicinity.
      B.   Exterior Property Maintenance: All exterior property and premises
shall be maintained in a clean, safe, and sanitary condition and free of weeds,
trash, debris and other nuisances in accordance with
Chapter 7, Article 11 of Caldwell City Code.
      C.   Sidewalk Maintenance: The owner and/or occupant of any building or
premises shall be responsible for keeping all adjacent sidewalks, walkways and
similar right of way areas maintained free from nuisances and hazardous
conditions, including weeds, trash, debris, snow and ice in accordance with
section
05-01-11 of Caldwell City Code.
      D.   Fences: All fences shall be maintained structurally sound and in
good condition and repair in accordance with this chapter.
      E.   Exterior Wood Surfaces: Exterior wood surfaces shall be protected
from the elements and decay by painting or other protective covering or
treatment approved by Planning and Zoning.
      F.   Siding and Masonry Joints: All siding and masonry joints, as well as
those between the building envelope and the perimeter of windows, doors and
skylights, shall be maintained, weather resistant and watertight.
      G.   Metal Surfaces: All metal surfaces subject to rust or corrosion
shall be coated to inhibit such rust and corrosion, and all surfaces with rust
or corrosion shall be stabilized and coated to inhibit future rust and
corrosion. Oxidation stains shall be removed from exterior surfaces. Surfaces
designed for stabilization by oxidation are exempt from this requirement.
      H.   Exterior Walls: All exterior walls shall be free from holes, breaks,
chipping paint, and loose or rotting materials; and maintained weatherproof and
properly surface-coated where required to prevent deterioration.
      I.   Decorative Features and Overhang Extensions: All cornices, trim,
wall facings, and similar decorative features shall be maintained in good
repair with proper anchorage and in safe condition. All overhang extensions
including, but not limited to, canopies, marquees, signs, awnings, fire
escapes, standpipes and exhaust ducts shall be maintained in good repair and
condition.
      J.   Compliance with Design Guidelines and Standards: All property shall
be maintained in compliance with this chapter and with any adopted design
guidelines, standards and provisions for the specific district.
      K.   Failure to Maintain; Unlawful. No owner of a property or structure
shall, by willful action or willful neglect, fail to provide sufficient and
reasonable care, maintenance and upkeep to such property or structure,
including the maintenance and upkeep to areas within the public right-of-way,
that are, by virtue of other codes and ordinances, the responsibility of the
property owner to maintain. For the purposes of this section, maintenance and
upkeep shall include but not be limited to keeping exterior surfaces of the
building compliant with design guidelines. All sites and areas around the
building shall be kept free of debris, garbage, weeds, and free from dead or
dying trees or landscaping or any other condition that constitutes a nuisance
or other violation of the City Code. Maintenance shall also mean continuing
compliance with all the conditions and standards of this chapter, including any
special conditions of a permit, land use entitlement, development agreement, or
design review approval given by the city or the design review commission.
   Violation of this section will constitute a nuisance and may be subject to
any administrative, criminal, civil, or equitable remedy allowed by law and in
accordance with Caldwell City Code and this chapter. (Ord. 3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-05 OFF-STREET PARKING STANDARDS:
   (1)   Purpose: The purpose of these regulations is to:
      A.   Provide regulations and standards for adequate off street parking
and loading facilities which does not impede the flow of traffic or delay
emergency response time on both private property and public right-of-way and
mitigate impacts on surrounding properties.
      B.   Address the needs of pedestrians, bicyclists, and users of public
transit by providing amenities that promote nonautomotive forms of
transportation.
   (2)   General Provisions:
      A.   Applicability: This full article shall apply in the following
situations unless otherwise noted:
         1.   All subdivisions and/or developments.
         2.   Special use permits.
         3.   Rezones, annexations, or simple lot splits.
         4.   New construction of principal structures and additions or
accessory structures that exceed twenty-five (25) percent of the gross floor
area of the principal structure or one thousand (1,000) square feet, whichever
is less.
         5.   Reconstruction or expansion of parking facilities.
         6.   Change of use, as determined by the Director or their designee.
         7.   Establishment of new uses, buildings, or structures on properties
that have been vacant or without a tenant for a period exceeding twelve (12)
consecutive months.
         8.   Exterior building renovations and routine maintenance and upkeep
are excluded.
      B.   Driveway And Garage Parking Space Requirements: Parking spaces on a
driveway located in front of a garage shall be calculated toward the minimum
parking space requirements and parking spaces in the garage shall also be
calculated toward the minimum parking space requirements for all residential
dwellings that include driveways and garages. The driveway spaces shall be a
minimum of ten feet (10') wide (per space) and a minimum of twenty-five feet
(25') deep, measured from the back of sidewalk where applicable. The garage
spaces shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') wide (per space) and twenty feet
(20') deep.
      C.   Off Street Parking (Driveways):
         1.   Off-street parking shall only be allowed on an established
driveway, parking lot, or enclosed garage. Established driveways must contain
an approved approach/curb cut from an alley or a street. Established driveways
shall consist of concrete or asphalt, and shall not consist of gravel, lawn,
grass or sod.
         2.   Driveways shall be paved a minimum of forty feet (40') into the
site as measured from the back edge of the sidewalk or edge of the roadway
where no sidewalk exists for commercial and industrial properties. Driveways
for residential properties/uses shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') wide (per
space) and paved a minimum of twenty-five feet (25') into the site as measured
from the back edge of the sidewalk or edge of the roadway where no sidewalk
exists for residential properties.
         3.   A minimum of one established driveway should be installed on any
residential site, when at all possible, as off street parking is the preferred
method of parking. Spacing, sizing, number, and design specifications and
standards for an approach/curb cut is determined by the Engineering Department.
An established driveway should be a minimum of ten feet (10') wide.
         4.   Off-street parking shall also follow all requirements as listed
in
article 12 of this chapter for parking of accessory uses.
      D.   Handicapped Parking: Handicapped accessible parking shall be
required as by State and Federal regulations.
      E.   Site Plan Required: A site plan shall be submitted with every
application that includes a use required to provide off street parking. The
plan shall accurately designate the dimensions of the required parking spaces,
drive aisles, and driveways approaches to/from right-of-way or other points of
ingress/egress. The proposed parking lot and perimeter landscaping shall comply
with the requirements of
article 2 of this chapter and shall also be depicted on the site plan, where
applicable. All site plans shall be reviewed by the Fire Department for
compliance with the Fire Code.
   (3)   Off-Street Parking: Off-street parking facilities shall be provided in
accordance with the following general standards:
      A.   Use: Off street parking facilities required subject to this chapter
shall be solely for the parking of passenger vehicles of patrons, occupants, or
employees unless shared parking is approved.
      B.   Computation: When determination of the number of off-street parking
spaces required by this chapter results in a requirement of a fractional space,
any fraction of one-half (1/2) or less may be disregarded while a fraction in
excess of one-half (1/2) shall be rounded up and counted as one parking space.
      C.   Shared Parking Lots: Off street parking facilities for separate uses
may be provided collectively if:
         1.   The total number of required spaces (minimum and maximum) for
each use is provided;
         2.   The location of said spaces adheres to all regulations herein;
         3.   There is an existing shared parking and ingress/egress easement
on the shared parking lot, and/or;
         4.   A formal shared parking agreement between users/property owners
is provided to Planning and Zoning at the time of building permit application.
      D.   Repair And Service: No vehicle repair work or service of any kind
shall be permitted in conjunction with any parking facilities.
      E.   Size: Except for parallel parking spaces, a required off street
parking space shall be at least nine feet (9') in width and at least twenty
feet (20') in length, exclusive of access drives or aisles, ramps, columns, or
office or work areas, etc. As an exception, standard parking stall lengths may
be reduced from 20 feet to 18 feet when the adjacent sidewalk or landscaping is
increased by two feet (2') above the minimum requirement, provided that all ADA
access requirements are maintained for walkway widths and accessibility and
other pedestrian walkway requirements are still maintained. Enclosed parking
spaces shall have a vertical clearance of at least seven feet (7'). Handicapped
parking spaces shall meet State and Federal size regulations. Parking stall
dimensions and aisle dimensions shall conform to the following specifications
in table 1 of this section, notwithstanding the exception provision noted in
this subsection:
TABLE 1
PARKING LOT DIMENSIONS
Parking Angle Stall Width Parking Stall Length Aisle Width 1
TABLE 1
PARKING LOT DIMENSIONS
Parking Angle Stall Width Parking Stall Aisle Width 1
                          Length
0° - 15°    9'          23'           11'
16° - 37°   9'          20'           11'
38° - 57°   9'          20'           13'
58° - 74°   9'          20'           18'
75° - 90°   9'          20'           24'
Table Footnotes:
 1.   All aisle widths for aisles that serve as fire access roads shall
be a minimum of 20 feet in width unless additional width is required by
Fire Code. Final determination regarding fire access roads shall be by
the City Fire Marshal.
 
      G.   Surfacing: All vehicular use areas, including parking stalls, drive
aisles/lanes, driveways, and driveway approaches, shall be improved to the
following standards:
         1.   Bituminous concrete (asphalt) is permitted in all zoning
districts and shall have at least a nine inch (9") compacted aggregate base and
a minimum thickness of two inches (2") of surface coverage. Any areas of
parking designated as a “high traffic lane”, which is intended to serve garbage
trucks, school buses, mail delivery trucks, etc., shall have at least a ten
inch (10") compacted base and a minimum thickness of three inches (3") of
surface coverage.
         2.   Portland cement concrete is permitted in all zoning districts and
shall have at least a four inch (4") compacted aggregate base and a minimum
thickness of six inches (6") of surface coverage.
         3.   All parking above and beyond the minimum code requirements for
industrial uses located within the M-1, M-2, and I-P Zoning Districts, are not
subject to the surfacing requirements listed in subsections (3)G1 and (3)G2 if
fully screened from the public right-of-way and any adjacent properties with a
sight obscuring fence. As an alternative, these facilities may be constructed
with an all-weather surface defined as a minimum of eight inches (8") of
subbase (typically pit run gravel) and a minimum of two inches (2") of base
course material (typically 3/4 inch minus crushed gravel).
         4.   Porous and permeable parking lot surfaces (excluding gravel, road
mix and similar) are permitted in any zoning district with the consent of the
City Engineer and Community Development Director. The applicant shall submit
cross section plans to the City and receive written permission from both
officials prior to construction.
         5.   In all zoning districts, any vehicular use area utilized for
emergency access shall be engineered and constructed to be capable of
supporting a minimum vehicle load of eighty thousand (80,000) pounds.
         6.   The off street parking facility surfaces of agricultural and
related uses located within the RS-1 and RS-2 Zoning Districts, and within the
Caldwell Event Center District Overlay (as outlined in
10-11 of this code) may be constructed with an all-weather surface defined as a
minimum of eight inches (8") of subbase (typically pit run gravel) and a
minimum of two inches (2") of base course material (typically 3/4 inch minus
crushed gravel) at the approval of the Director and the Engineering Department.
Should a development in these districts choose to pave, the surfacing
requirements as listed in subsections (3)G1 and (3)G2 of this section shall be
adhered to. Any other agricultural or related uses in other districts may be
permitted to use an all-weather surface as approved by the Director through an
Alternative Method of Compliance application.
      H.   Screening And Landscaping: All newly constructed or expanded parking
lots shall comply with the landscaping provisions listed in article 27 of this
chapter. All regular maintenance of parking lots (re-striping or regular
resurfacing) are exempt from complying with the landscaping provisions of this
chapter if previously legal non-conforming. Any existing landscaping/screening
shall be maintained.
      I.   Lighting: All off-street parking areas shall comply with the
lighting standards in Article 4 of this chapter (
10-04-10). The Planning and Zoning Commission may, on petition of neighboring
residential property owners or tenants, and after a public hearing, require
that such lighting be reduced in intensity, height, changed in duration, or
turned off after certain hours. In making this decision on any such petition,
the Planning and Zoning Commission shall take into consideration the reasonable
requirements of the user of the parking area involved. The Planning and Zoning
Commission’s decision may be appealed to the City Council through the public
hearing appeal process.
      J.   Required Spaces:
         1.   Residential uses shall be parked at the noted ratios in
Table 4 below or as noted within the Specific Use Provisions (
10-12) for the applicable use.
         2.   Unless otherwise specified below or within the Specific Use
Provisions (
10-12), all nonresidential uses (excluding industrial/manufacturing) shall
provide one (1) off-street parking space for every five hundred (500) square
feet of gross floor area and shall not exceed one (1) space for every one
hundred and fifty (150) square feet of gross floor area, unless approved by the
Director as outlined in subsection J.5 below.
         3.   Unless otherwise specified below, all industrial/manufacturing
uses shall provide one (1) off street parking space for every two thousand
(2,000) square feet of gross floor area and shall not exceed one (1) space for
every four hundred (400) square feet of gross floor area.
         4.   Uses in a strip mall, business center, commercial or industrial
subdivision or similar may count all parking spaces located within the
development for their use provided business hours do not overlap. For instance,
a space, used as a church on Sundays in a complex filled with professional
offices, may count all of the parking spaces in the complex toward its use on
Sundays if the professional offices are closed on Sundays, thereby eliminating
the need for the church to install an entire parking lot just for the church.
Parking requirements in this section shall not compromise State and Federal
handicap parking regulations. Land uses listed in section
10-02-02 of this article and not listed in
table 4 of this section shall be governed with the parking standards for the
general use category (i.e. nonresidential, industrial, etc.) or shall be
determined by the Director.
         5.   The Director has the authority to reduce the minimum or increase
the maximum number of parking stalls required by up to fifty percent (50%).
These shall be decided on a case-by-case basis and shall be dependent on the
ultimate use of the property, existing parking in the area, and other pertinent
factors. Reductions to the minimum parking or bicycle parking requirements or
increases to the maximum parking requirements greater than fifty percent (50%)
may take place through either special use permit approval, a variance approval,
or a planned unit development approval, whichever may be most applicable.
TABLE 2
Land Use Minimum Number of Parking Spaces Maximum Number of Parking Spaces
TABLE 2
Land Use                   Minimum Number of Parking Maximum Number of Parking
                           Spaces                    Spaces
Residential:
 Accessory Dwelling Unit   0                         1.0 per dwelling unit
 Manufactured and mobile   1.0 per dwelling unit
 homes
 Single-family and two-    2.0 per dwelling unit
 family dwellings 1
 Dwelling - Live / Work    Residential - 1 per
                           dwelling
 Nonresidential use - per  Residential - 3 per
 use                       dwelling
 Dwelling - Cottage Courts 1.0 per dwelling
 Dwelling - Townhouse      2.0 per dwelling
 Multi-family dwellings    1.0 per Studio unit
 (triplex and up)
 1.5 per 1- and 2-bedroom
 unit
 2 per 3+ bedroom unit
 Guest Parking - 1 per 10
 units, but in no case     Required spaces plus 30%
 shall there be less than
 1 guest parking space.
 Dormitory, fraternity/    0.75 per bed              1.75 per bed
 sorority house
 Homeless shelter,         0.25 per bed              0.75 per bed
 rooming/boarding house
 Lodging - Bed and         1.0 per bed               1.25 per bed
 Breakfast
 Nursing home, residential
 care facility, assisted   0.75 per bed              1.5 per bed
 living facility
Nonresidential Uses:
 Airport terminal          1.0 for every 250 square  1.0 for every 100 square
                           feet of floor area        feet of floor area
                           2.0 stacking spaces per   3.0 stacking spaces per
 Automotive - Car wash     service bay and/or 1.0    service bay and/or 2.0 per
                           per employee              employee
 Arts, Entertainment, and  1.0 per 250 square feet   1.0 per 150 square feet of
 Recreation - Indoor       of gross floor area       gross floor area
 Arts, Entertainment, and  1.0 per 500 square feet   1.0 per 250 square feet of
 Recreation - Outdoor      of gross floor area       gross floor area
 Automotive - Gas/service  1.0 per fuel pump         2.0 per fuel pump
 station
                           1.0 per rental vehicle,   1.0 per rental vehicle,
 Automotive - Rental lot   plus 1 space for every    plus 1 space for every 200
                           500 square feet of office square feet of office
                           floor area                floor area
 Automotive - Storage      1.0 space per 250 square
                           feet of office space
 Automotive - Wrecking     1.0 for every 250 square  1.0 for every 150 square
 yard, Junkyard            feet of office space      feet of office space
 Church, Place of Worship  1.0 for every 4.0 seats
 Community Center          1.0 for every 250 square
                           feet of floor area
 Drinking Establishment -  1.0 for every 200 square  1.0 for every 100 square
 Liquor; Brewery, Cidery,  feet of floor area        feet of floor area
 Winery, and Distillery
 Fitness facility          1.0 for every 250 square  1.0 for every 150 square
                           feet of floor area        feet of floor area
 Funeral home              1.0 for every 150 square  1.0 for every 75 square
                           feet                      feet
 Hospital                  1.25 per bed              2.0 per bed
 Industry - uses that
 include large outdoor
 yards (i.e. Asphalt       1.0 for every 500 square
 plant, cement and         feet of office space,
 concrete production,      plus 1 space for each
 monument production,      employee on the largest
 recycling operation, sand shift
 and gravel yard,
 landfill, etc.)
 Park                      3.0 per acre              8.0 per acre
 Personal Services -       1.0 for every chair       1.5 for every chair
 Barber/beauty shop
 Restaurants - Full        1.0 for every 250 square  1.0 for every 100 square
 Service                   feet                      feet
 Restaurant - Limited      1.0 for every 400 square  1.0 for every 200 square
 Service                   feet                      feet
                           1.0 for every sales       1.0 for every sales
 Retail Sales -            vehicle, plus 1 space for vehicle, plus 1 space for
 Automotive, new and used  every 200 square feet of  every 100 square feet of
                           floor area                floor area
                           8.0 for every classroom/  15.0 for every classroom/
 School - Post Secondary   assembly area and 2.0     assembly area and 3.0
                           spaces for every room     spaces for every room used
                           used for administration   for administration
                           1.0 for every 500 square  1.0 for every 300 square
 School, Primary           feet of classroom and     feet of classroom and
                           office/administration     office/administration
                           space                     space
                           1.0 for every 350 square  1.0 for every 150 square
 School, Secondary         feet of classroom and     feet of classroom and
                           office/administration     office/administration
                           space                     space
 Wireless communications   1.0 for every tower       2.0 for every tower
 facility
                           1.0 for every 2,000 500   1.0 for every 1,000 square
 Zoo                       square feet of lot        feet of lot area
                           exhibit area
 Footnotes:
 1   A minimum of one (1) space shall be enclosed in a garage with minimum
 dimensions of ten feet (10') by twenty feet (20') for each space.
 
      K.   Parking Lot Maintenance: All parking lots, regardless of surface
type, shall be maintained on a regular basis to ensure that all striping and
curb paintings are visible; all parking and fire lane signage is readable and
in good repair; and all parking lots are free from any potholes deemed to be
unsafe or any other safety hazards. Parking lots with unsafe potholes or
surfaces and/or signs in a state of disrepair, faded striping or curb painting
or any other safety hazard shall be repaired within the time frame given in the
notification requesting such repairs. Notifications shall be made via the
process outlined in section
10-03-13 of this chapter.
      L.   Required Off Street Parking Areas: Required off-street parking
areas, including driveways, are to be used for parking only. Automobile sales,
storage, and other uses are prohibited with the exception of Mobile Food Units,
or temporary and/or seasonal uses which are subject to other standards or
permitting and/or licensing.
      M.   Vehicles For Sale: With the exception of approved auto sales lots,
it shall be prohibited and unlawful to maintain or place vehicles on another’s
property for the purpose of sale.
      N.   Areas Not Designated For Vehicle Parking: Cars, trucks, trailers,
boats, boat trailers, and recreational vehicles shall not be parked in required
setbacks, on unimproved parking areas, or areas not designed for vehicle
parking.
      O.   Commercial Vehicles And Trailers: Commercial vehicles and trailers
shall not be parked, stored, or left unattended in residentially zoned areas
whether on public or private property except while engaged in construction or
any other permitted activities.
      P.   Advertising Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any person to stand
or park a vehicle within any right of way for the purpose of advertising said
vehicle for sale, lease, and/or rent. Any violation of this section may result
in enforcement action as outlined in section
09-07-19 of this code.
      Q.   If bus transportation is provided for patrons, occupants, or
employees of a specific establishment, additional off-street parking or loading
spaces for each bus which will be parked or loaded on the premises shall be
provided in compliance with the terms of this chapter.
   (4)   Off Street Loading: Off street loading spaces accessory to designated
uses shall be provided as follows:
      A.   Location: All required loading spaces shall be located on the same
lot as the use served. All vehicle loading spaces which abut a residential
district or use and/or abut an intervening alley separating a residential
district or use from a commercial or industrial district or use shall be
completely screened by building walls, or a solid fence, wall, or any
combination thereof, not less than eight feet (8') nor more than ten feet (10')
in height. No loading space shall be located in a required front or side yard
adjoining a street.
      B.   Access: Each required off-street loading space shall be designed
with appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner
which will least interfere with traffic movement.
      C.   Surfacing: All open off-street loading spaces shall be improved with
a ten inch (10") compacted aggregate base and a minimum thickness of three
inches (3") of bituminous concrete.
      D.   Utilization: Space allocated to any off-street loading space shall
not be used to satisfy the parking space requirements for any off-street
parking facilities or portions thereof.
      E.   Off Street Loading Space Requirements:
         1.   The minimum number of off-street loading spaces accessory to
commercial uses shall be: One loading space for buildings containing ten
thousand (10,000) to one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet of gross-floor
area, plus one additional loading space for each additional one hundred
thousand (100,000) square feet of gross floor area or major fraction thereof.
 
TABLE 3
COMMERCIAL LOADING DIMENSIONS
Floor Area Of          Required Loading                      Minimum Clearance
Establishments (Square Spaces           Required Size (Feet) (Feet)
Feet)
10,000 to 99,999       1                12 x 50              14
100,000 to 199,999     2                12 x 50              14
200,000 to 299,999     3                12 x 50              14
300,000 and above      4                12 x 50              14
 
         2.   The minimum number of off-street loading spaces accessory to
industrial uses shall be in accordance with the following schedule in table 6
of this subsection:
 
TABLE 4
INDUSTRIAL LOADING DIMENSIONS
Floor Area Of          Required Loading Spaces               Minimum Clearance
Establishments (Square (Feet)                  Required Size (Feet)
Feet)
10,000 to 19,999       1                       12 x 50       14
20,000 to 49,999       2                       12 x 50       14
50,000 to 99,999       3                       12 x 50       14
100,000 and above      4                       12 x 50       14
 
   (5)   Bicycle Parking:
      A.   Required Spaces:
         1.   One (1) bicycle parking spaces for every ten (10) vehicle spaces
proposed shall be required for all uses unless a different ratio is deemed
appropriate by Planning and Zoning. Except that public and private education
facilities shall provide one (1) bicycle space for every twenty (20) students.
         2.   Computation: When determination of the number of bicycle parking
spaces required by this section results in a requirement of a fractional space,
any fraction of one-half (1/2) or less may be disregarded while a fraction in
excess of one-half (1/2) shall be counted as one parking space.
         3.   Bicycle Parking Standards:
            (A)   Residential bicycle parking must be:
               i.   Provided by racks, covered pads, or lockers approved by
planning and zoning.
               ii.   Centrally located on the site or equitably dispersed
throughout the site.
               iii.   Covered (between 7 and 10 feet in height).
               iv.   Illuminated.
               v.   Racks or lockers will not be required if the property owner
provides at least one bicycle parking space in all dwelling units or dormitory
units.
            (B)   Commercial, industrial, and public and semipublic bicycle
parking must be:
               i.   Provided by racks or lockers approved by the planning and
zoning director.
               ii.   Within the following distance of the main entrance of a
building:
                  1)   Building with one main entrance: Within one hundred feet
(100') of the main entrance as measured along the most direct pedestrian route.
                  2)   Building with more than one main entrance: Bicycle
parking must be located along all facades with an entrance, and within one
hundred feet (100') of at least one main entrance as measured along the most
direct pedestrian route.
                  3)   Uses with more than one primary building: Bicycle
parking must be located within one hundred feet (100') of a main entrance as
measured along the most direct pedestrian access route.
               iii.   Illuminated. (Ord. 2738, 7-7-2008)
               iv.   Two feet by six feet (2' x 6') in area. Aisles must be at
least five feet (5') wide.
      B.   Public Transportation:
         1.   Public transportation facilities shall be required when requested
by the local mass transit jurisdiction in the following situations:
            (A)   Commercial subdivision(s) and/or development(s).
            (B)   Industrial subdivision(s) and/or development(s).
            (C)   Special use permits.
            (D)   Multi-family dwelling subdivision(s) and/or development(s).
            (E)   Planned unit developments.
            (F)   Manufactured home parks.
            (G)   Rezones. (Ord. 2738, 7-7-2008; Ord. 2805, 11-2-2009; Ord.
2865, 6-20-2011; Ord. 2911, 9-4-2012; Ord. 2967, 7-21-2014; Ord. 3010, 11-16-
2009; Ord. 3065, 9-19-2016; Ord. 3102, 9-5-2017; Ord. 3237, 10-7-2019; Ord.
3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-06 SIGN REGULATIONS:
10-02-06-1 PURPOSE, DEFINITIONS AND TERMS:
   (1)   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to regulate the size, color,
illumination, movement, materials, location, height and condition of all signs
placed on private property for exterior observation, thus ensuring the
protection of property values and the character of various neighborhoods; to
eliminate signs that create potential hazards to motorists, pedestrians, and
property; to eliminate clutter and preserve and improve the aesthetic values,
economic prosperity, and visual qualities of Caldwell by setting requirements
for the size, color, illumination, movement, materials, location, height, and
condition of all signs. The city does not intend to have content-based
restrictions or content-based enforcement.
   (2)   Definitions: See section
10-01-10 of this code for all definitions related to signs/signage. (Ord. 3662,
4-21-2025)
10-02-06-2 GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   The following shall apply to signs in all zoning districts:
   (1)   Permits required. No person shall construct, erect, enlarge, alter, or
relocate any sign, or install electrical parts, wiring, or illumination in or
upon a sign regulated by this article, until all required permits have been
obtained, including, but not limited to, sign permits, business license,
building permits, electrical permits, mechanical permits, plumbing permits, and
any other permit required by federal, state, or local law.
   (2)   Special Use Permits. Any situation that involves increasing the square
footage or height of a sign above code allowances, reducing the required
distance a sign is set back from a property line or right of way line,
increasing the maximum number of signs allowed on a property, or allowing
illuminated signs in a zone where illumination is not permitted may be granted
only upon the successful completion of a Special Use Permit and in accordance
with this section.
   (3)   Conformity, permit required. No person shall erect, construct,
enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, convert, equip, use, or maintain any
sign, or cause or permit the same to be done, in violation of any provision of
this chapter. These regulations apply to both commercial and non-commercial
signage.
   (4)   Architectural Compatibility. The number, area, and height of signs as
outlined in this section are intended to be maximum standards which do not
necessarily ensure architectural compatibility. Therefore, in addition to the
enumerated maximum standards, the city shall give consideration to a sign’s
relationship to the overall appearance of the subject property as well as the
surrounding area.
   (5)   Landscaping: All permanent freestanding signs shall be landscaped in
accordance with the requirements listed in the landscaping ordinance.
   (6)   Materials and Appearance. It is the intent of this section to
encourage interesting, creative, readable, effective, uncluttered, and well-
maintained signage. Sign materials and appearance shall be complementary to the
building architecture and colors. All signs shall be professionally made or
purchased from a retail / wholesale establishment store or sign company.
   (7)   Stricter standards prevail. Nothing in this chapter is intended, nor
shall be construed, to permit the erection, construction, enlargement,
alteration, or maintenance of any sign at any place or in any manner unlawful
under any other federal, state, or local law. When any part of this chapter
conflicts with another provision of federal, state, or local law, the provision
that establishes the stricter standard shall control.
   (8)   Severability Clause. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause,
word or phrase of this section is for any reason held to be invalid, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
section and will continue in full force and effect.
   (9)   Placement restrictions.
      A.   No signs (whether permanent or temporary) shall be placed within any
utility or access easement, public right-of-way or projected future right-of-
way area as determined by the city engineer (unless specifically authorized by
this chapter or approved by city council), or within any vision triangle. When
erected in conformance with this chapter, it shall not be placed in such a
manner as to obstruct free and clear vision of users of the right of way, or
have colors or patterns which interfere, obscure or conflict with any
authorized traffic sign, signal or traffic control device.
      B.   No sign of any kind, except public traffic directing devices, public
utility signs or safety signs, shall be placed within or project over any,
vision triangle, property line or “Right of way area”, which for purposes of
this article, shall be defined as follows: Improved or unimproved public
property owned by, dedicated to, or deeded to, the public or for the public’s
use, or future public property planned for future public use, for the purpose
of providing vehicular, pedestrian and other public use and includes the land
between the right of way lines whether improved or unimproved and comprises the
following, at a minimum: pavement, shoulders, curbs, gutters, sidewalks,
parking areas, lawns and ground located between the curb and detached
sidewalks.
      C.   Setbacks In All Districts: Unless otherwise noted in this article,
the minimum setback shall be three feet (3') from the property line, which
shall include the footings, base, and all parts of the sign. The setbacks are
measured from the property line. In those cases where roadway widening is
planned and officially approved, the future property line / right-of-way shall
be established as the setback for signage placement.
      D.   Signs taller than three feet (3') shall not be located within any
vision triangle, regardless of any property line or right-of-way line.
      E.   Freestanding Pole Signs: Freestanding pole signs, where permitted,
shall have a minimum setback from all property lines of thirty feet (30') and
shall have a minimum separation distance of one thousand feet (1,000'). This
measurement shall include signs along both sides of the roadway and not only
the signage along the side of the roadway where the sign is proposed to be
installed.
   (10)   Sign permit issuance; compliance required. No sign permit will be
issued for any property and/or business without an existing structure, a valid
business license, and a valid building permit, or certificate of zoning
compliance for an allowed use within the applicable district.
   (11)   Attachment. All signs shall be attached in accordance with the
manufacturer’s specifications, the registered design professional, or the sign
contractor, whichever is applicable and the most stringent.
   (12)   Corner Lots. On corner lots, each lot line abutting an existing
street shall be considered separate frontage.
   (13)   Pole Signs: Pole coverings shall be required on all new pole signs.
   (14)   Sign Alterations. Except for signs not regulated by this section,
sign alterations that increase sign face square footage shall require
conformance to this article.
   (15)   Sign Maintenance and Repair. All signs, regardless of type, shall be
continually maintained in a state of good appearance, security, safety and
repair throughout their life. Maintenance shall be such that the signage
continues to conform to any conditions imposed by this article, the sign permit
or any applicable special use permits. Nothing in this Code shall relieve the
owner or user of any sign or owner of property on which a sign is located from
maintaining the sign in a safe condition, a state of good repair and an
aesthetically pleasing condition.
   (16)   Home Occupation Signs. Regardless of zoning district, one sign is
permitted per dwelling unit where a home occupation permit has been issued. The
sign shall not be more than three (3) square feet in area, shall be unlighted,
and shall be attached flush to the building.
   (17)   Lighting: All lighting shall be installed, operated, and maintained
to be harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing and intended
character of the general vicinity and shall not change the essential character
of the same area; and the lighting shall not be disturbing or shine upon
existing or future neighboring uses.
   (18)   Portable Or Temporary Signs. Portable signs or temporary signs cannot
be used as permanent signage unless indicated otherwise herein.
   (19)   Display Of Merchandise. Display of merchandise does not count as
signage and is permitted on site provided all merchandise is not within or over
any public “right-of-way area”, as defined in this chapter, or within or over
any vision triangle area and all merchandise is in a clean, neat, safe,
operable condition.
   (20)   Removal Of Signs. Any signs, in any zoning district, placed illegally
within a public right-of-way, right-of-way area, or vision triangle area or
that are presenting an immediate vehicular or pedestrian safety hazard, may be
removed and disposed of by city staff, with or without notification. Illegal
temporary signs placed on private property may be removed and disposed of by
city staff, with or without notification. (Ord. 3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-06-3 EXEMPTED SIGNS:
   (1)   These signs are exempted by this Code and may be permitted in a public
right-of-way upon authorization through the City Traffic Commission:
      A.   Public regulation and information signs.
      B.   Curb addresses and private street numbers.
      C.   Signs erected by public service companies for the purpose of safety.
      D.   Public Signs: Signs erected by government agencies or utilities,
including traffic, utility, safety, railroad crossing, identification, and
informational signs for public facilities and any signs erected by the
authority having jurisdiction.
      E.   Official notices issued by any court, public agency, or officer.
      F.   Signs required by local, state or federal law.
   (2)   These signs are exempted by this code but are not permitted within or
over a public right of way and must follow all vision triangle regulations:
      A.   Security and Warning Signs: Signs regulating the use of the
premises, such as “no trespassing”, “no hunting”, “no soliciting”, or other
safety warning signs placed on private property.
      B.   Flags of any country, state or unit of local government.
      C.   Flagpoles.
      D.   Internal traffic directional signs, less than three (3) square feet
in size.
      E.   Holiday decorations and signs of a decorative nature, incidental and
commonly associated with any national, local or religious holiday.
      F.   Signs being carried by people.
      G.   Handicap parking space signs in accordance with federal law.
      H.   Private Drive Signs: Signs installed on private property for private
drives, and not exceeding two (2) square feet in area.
      I.   Any sign consistent with this section as deemed appropriate by the
director. (Ord. 3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-06-4 PROHIBITED SIGNS:
   (1)   The following signs are specifically prohibited unless indicated
otherwise:
      A.   Pole signs, except for freeway-oriented pole signs in accordance
with this section.
      B.   Roof and roof supported signs.
      C.   Wall signs that extend above the parapet wall.
      D.   Temporary signs placed within landscaped areas on commercial,
industrial, public, semi-public, or institutional properties, or otherwise
placed into the ground.
      E.   Any sign which blocks the Americans with disabilities act (ADA)
minimum width required for handicap accessibility on a public sidewalk.
      F.   Mechanically moving signs or other display with actual mechanical
motion powered by natural, manual, mechanical, electrical or other means,
including but not limited to searchlights, beacons, strobe lights, streamers,
spinners, pennant strings, scintillating lights, and similar lights.
      G.   Dynamic signage, which includes moving, revolving, intermittent,
oscillating, animated, or flashing signs.
      H.   Inflatable signs and other permanent objects which are inflated,
including but not limited to balloons and blimps. Balloons may be permitted in
temporary non-commercial situations; for instance, they are permitted for
special occasions at a residence.
      I.   Signs which by reason of size, location, movement, coloring, or
manner of illumination, imitate, or resemble, or may be confused with, or be
construed as a traffic control sign, traffic control signal or device, or the
light of a police, fire, ambulance, or rescue vehicles, or the light of other
emergency or radio equipment vehicle.
      J.   Simulated Traffic Signs and Obstructions: Any sign which may be
confused with, or obstruct the view of, any authorized traffic sign or signal,
obstruct the sight-distance triangle at any road intersection or extend into
the public right-of-way.
      K.   Signs Within Street or Highway Rights Of Way: Except as herein
provided, no sign whatsoever, whether temporary or permanent, except traffic
signs and signals and information signs erected by the controlling public
agency, are permitted within any street or highway right of way. Signs within a
street or highway right of way are subject to immediate removal and disposal by
city staff without notification.
      L.   Posters, Handbills and Miscellaneous Signs: Posters, handbills and
other miscellaneous signs which are visible from a public way and are tacked,
pasted, taped or otherwise affixed in a similar manner to or upon trees, light
poles, electric poles, fences, hydrants, bridges, or other similar structures,
except for signs on private property in order to prevent trespassing and to
head warnings.
      M.   Display of items for sale within any landscape area or required
parking area.
      N.   Signs Attached to Trailers or Vehicles: Signs attached to a trailer
or vehicle that is permanently parked along a public highway or street, or
otherwise within the right-of-way.
      O.   Highly Reflective and Fluorescent Signs made wholly or partially of
highly reflective material unless required by the Caldwell fire department.
      P.   Signs On Benches and Shelters: Exception: Signs on benches and
shelters that have been constructed/placed by or through the approval of the
public transit or city authority after following the sign permitting process.
Such bench/shelter signage shall be flat, professionally prepared signs
permanently fastened to back support/rests or walls or painted directly on the
surface. Signage may not be chained, tied, propped upon or otherwise affixed
except as stated previously. Illegally attached signage or signage placed by
someone other than the public transit or city authority shall be removed and
disposed of by city staff. Signage on benches located in city golf courses is
permitted insomuch as golf course signage requirements allow it and all such
signage is coordinated through the golf course.
      Q.   Dilapidated, Deteriorated, or Unsightly Signs.
      R.   Abandoned Signs.
      S.   Rotating Signs.
      T.   Sandwich Board / A-frame / Wheeled Signs, except as otherwise stated
in this section or within this chapter.
      U.   Pennant strings, streamers, spinners, propellers, search lights and
other similar mechanically moving signs.
      V.   Any sign in violation of this chapter.
      W.   Any sign in violation of local, state, or federal law over which the
city exercises jurisdiction.
      X.   Any sign whose permit or approval has not been obtained or whose
permit or approval is expired. (Ord. 3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-06-5 APPROVAL OF SIGN PLANS:
   (1)   When a sign permit or site plan is submitted to the City for, it shall
be accompanied by a complete comprehensive sign plan showing the following on
the subject property:
      A.   The location of all existing or proposed signs on the property.
      B.   The sign type, height, area, and setback of each existing and
proposed signs on the property.
      C.   A conceptual rendering of each proposed sign on the property.
      D.   Renderings or photos of existing signs on the property.
      E.   Building elevations showing any wall signs.
      F.   All other information as required on the sign checklist. (Ord. 3662,
4-21-2025)
10-02-06-6 SIZE, HEIGHT, AND MEASUREMENT COMPUTATION:
   (1)   Sign Face Area:
      A.   Panel or Cabinet Signs. In the case of panel or cabinet type signs,
the sign face shall include the entire area of the sign panel, cabinet or face
substrate upon which the sign copy is displayed or illustrated, but not open
space between separate panels or cabinets.
      B.   Painted Signs, Individual Letters, or Graphic Elements. In the case
of signs painted on a building, or individual letters or graphic elements
affixed to a building or structure, the sign face shall comprise the sum of the
geometric figures or combination of regular geometric figures drawn closest to
the edge of the letters or separate graphic elements comprising the sign copy,
but not the open space between separate groupings of sign copy on the same
building or structure.
      C.   In the case of sign copy enclosed within a painted or illuminated
border or displayed on a background contrasting in color with the color of the
building or structure, the sign face shall comprise the area within the
contrasting background, or within the painted or illuminated border.
      D.   Awnings, Canopy and Marquees: When graphics or sign copy is
incorporated into an awning, canopy or marquee, the sign area is determined by
computing the area of a standard imaginary geometric shape or combination of
shapes drawn around the sign copy area or graphics. When the ends of awnings,
canopies or marquees are parallel and contain graphics or sign copy, only one
side is counted in addition to the sign face area on the front.
   (2)   Sign Height:
      A.   Sign height is measured from the ground underneath the sign to the
highest point of the sign and any vertical projection thereof, including its
support columns. If the ground under the sign slopes, the height shall be
measured from the average grade under the sign itself. (Ord. 3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-06-7 RS-1, RS-2, R-1, R-2, R-3, T-N DISTRICTS; SIGN SCHEDULE:
   (1)   Single-Family & Two-Family Residential Property:
      A.   All single-family and two-family residential properties located in
RS-1, RS-2, R-1, and T-N zoning districts are permitted signs not to exceed six
(6) square feet in total sign area per road frontage. Signs may be
freestanding, mounted to a permanent building, or displayed in a window. The
maximum height of any sign on properties with single-family and two-family
residential uses is four (4) feet.
   (2)   Non-Residential Uses in Residential Zone:
      A.   Freestanding Signs: One (1) permanent freestanding monument sign
shall be permitted per street frontage on property used for non-residential
uses. Each sign shall not exceed twenty-four (24) square feet in area and may
be externally illuminated. These signs may be expanded to thirty-two (32)
square feet in area and/or may be internally illuminated through a special use
permit. A sign permit is required prior to installation. The maximum height is
fifteen (15) feet. In no case shall a permitted sign or specially permitted
sign be taller than the roofline of the tallest building it serves.
      B.   Electronic Message Centers or Changeable Copy Signs: One electronic
message center or changeable copy sign may be permitted on properties with
permitted non-residential uses, only when it is used in conjunction with, and
as a part of, a permitted monument sign. The electronic message center or
changeable copy sign portion shall not exceed twenty-five (25) percent of the
permitted square footage of the monument sign. All EMC signs shall have
automatic dimming controls, either by photocell (hardwired) or via software
settings, in order to bring the EMC lighting level at night down to a level
acceptable as specified in this section.
         1.   EMC signs shall have a minimum display time of eight (8) seconds.
The transition time between messages and/or message frames is limited to three
(3) seconds and these transitions may employ fade, dissolve, and/or other
transition effects.
      C.   Building Signs:
         1.   Building signs (wall, hanging, suspended and projecting signs)
signs affixed to a building wall or facade are permitted for properties with
permitted non-residential uses. Multiple signs are permitted, but the total
signage area shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the area of the wall /
façade in elevation view upon which the sign(s) are placed. Wall signs in these
districts may be externally illuminated.
         2.   Hanging, suspended and projecting signs which allow the sign to
swing shall not exceed sixteen (16) square feet.
         3.   Building signs shall not extend more than eighteen (18) inches
out from the wall or structure to which they are attached, with the exception
of projecting signs, which may project out a maximum of twenty-four inches.
         4.   Hanging, suspended and projecting signs shall have a minimum
clearance beneath the sign is twelve feet (12').
         5.   Sign permits are required prior to installation.
   (3)   Residential Subdivisions, Apartment Complexes, Multi-Family
Developments, and Condominium Complexes:
      A.   One sign may be placed on each side of any entry road into the
subdivision, complex, or development. The applicant shall choose between
freestanding monument signs or wall signs that are placed upon a decorative
entry wall structure. Signs shall not exceed sixty (60) square feet in area and
fifteen feet (15') in height and may be externally illuminated.
      B.   Building Signs:
         1.   Building signs (wall, hanging, suspended and projecting signs)
signs affixed to a building wall or facade are permitted for amenity buildings
(clubhouses, community centers/buildings, and similar) within subdivisions,
complexes or multi-family developments. Multiple signs are permitted, but the
total signage area shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the area of the wall /
façade in elevation view upon which the sign(s) are placed. Wall signs in these
districts may be externally illuminated.
         2.   Hanging, suspended and projecting signs which allow the sign to
swing shall not exceed sixteen (16) square feet.
         3.   Building signs shall not extend more than eighteen (18) inches
out from the wall or structure to which they are attached, with the exception
of projecting signs, which may project out a maximum of twenty-four inches.
         4.   Hanging, suspended and projecting signs shall have a minimum
clearance beneath the sign of twelve feet (12').
         5.   Sign permits are required prior to installation.
      C.   Other directional, incidental and/or accessory signs are also
permitted to be located within the subdivision, complex or multi-family
development. Such directional, incidental and/or accessory signs shall not
exceed six (6) square feet in sign area and eight (8) feet in height (if
freestanding).
      D.   Sign permits are required prior to installation. (Ord. 3662, 4-21-
2025)
10-02-06-8 C-1, C-2, C-3, C-4, H-C, M-1, M-2, I-P DISTRICTS; SIGN SCHEDULE:
   (1)   Single-Family & Two-Family Residential Property:
      A.   All single-family and two-family residential properties are
permitted signs not to exceed six (6) square feet in total sign area per road
frontage. Signs may be freestanding, mounted to a permanent building or
displayed in a window. The maximum height of any sign on properties with
single-family and two-family residential uses is four (4) feet.
   (2)   Non-Residential Uses:
      A.   One (1) permanent freestanding monument sign is permitted per street
frontage on any commercial, industrial, or public property. If a property has
frontage that exceeds three hundred (300) lineal feet on any given roadway, one
(1) additional sign on such frontage is permitted. Unless otherwise regulated
by specific reference herein, the area and height above grade of any
freestanding sign shall not exceed the amounts listed in Table 1 below.
         1.   In the case of a property designated as a shopping center or
planned industrial or business park, additional freestanding monument signs
shall be permitted for each vehicular entrance to the property. The permitted
sign area for these additional freestanding signs shall be sixty (60) percent
of the sign area permitted by Table 10-02-06-8. Sign height shall be in
conformance with 10-02-06-8.
Table
10-02-06-8: Freestanding Monument Signs on Nonresidential Properties
 Zoning Districts1,2
Table
10-02-06-8: Freestanding Monument Signs on Nonresidential Properties
              Zoning Districts1,2
Roadway       C-1          C-2 and C-3  C-4          H-C          M-1, M-2, I-P
Private or    Max. 24 sq.  Max. 24 sq.  Max. 24 sq.  Max. 24 sq.  Max. 24 sq.
local road    ft. Max. 10' ft. Max. 15' ft. Max. 15' ft. Max. 15' ft. Max. 15'
              high         high         high         high         high
Minor         Max. 32 sq.  Max. 32 sq.  Max. 32 sq.  Max. 32 sq.  Max. 32 sq.
Collector     ft. Max. 15' ft. Max. 20' ft. Max. 20' ft. Max. 20' ft. Max. 25'
              high         high         high         high         high
Minor         Max. 32 sq.  Max. 32 sq.  Max. 48 sq.  Max. 48 sq.  Max. 48 sq.
Arterial      ft. Max. 15' ft. Max. 20' ft. Max. 20' ft. Max. 25' ft. Max. 25'
              high         high         high         high         high
Major         Max. 48 sq.  Max. 48 sq.  Max. 48 sq.  Max. 48 sq.  Max. 48 sq.
Collector     ft. Max. 20' ft. Max. 25' ft. Max. 25' ft. Max. 30' ft. Max. 30'
              high         high         high         high         high
Major         Max. 48 sq.  Max. 60 sq.  Max. 60 sq.  Max. 60 sq.  Max. 48 sq.
Arterial      ft. Max. 20' ft. Max. 25' ft. Max. 25' ft. Max. 25' ft. Max. 30'
              high         high         high         high         high
Frontage      Max. 60 sq.  Max. 100 sq. Max. 100 sq. Max. 100 sq. Max. 100 sq.
along Hwy 55, ft. Max. 40' ft. Max. 40' ft. Max. 40' ft. Max. 40' ft. Max. 40'
Hwy 20/26 or  high         high3        high3        high3        high3
I-84
Footnote:
1   In no case shall a sign be higher than 25' when adjacent to a residential
neighborhood.
2   Signs may be internally or externally illuminated, except signs that are
adjacent to a residential neighborhood or residential use shall be externally
illuminated only.
3   Where four or more buildings exist on a single parcel or are within the
same development, a freestanding monument may be increased to 200 square feet
of signage copy area with all other permitted freestanding monument signs
meeting the private or local road standards for height and area.
 
      B.   Electronic Message Center (EMC) or Changeable Copy Signs:
         1.   One (1) electronic message center or changeable copy sign may be
permitted only when it is used in conjunction with, and as a part of, a
permitted freestanding monument sign. The electronic message center or
changeable copy sign portion shall not exceed twenty - five (25) percent of the
permitted square footage of the monument sign. Such signage shall be approved
through a special use permit in these districts prior to installation. A sign
permit is required prior to installation.
         2.   All EMC signs shall have automatic dimming controls, either by
photocell (hardwired) or via software settings, in order to bring the EMC
lighting level at night down to a level acceptable as specified in this
section.
            (A)   In the C-1 zones, EMC signs shall have a minimum display time
of eight (8) seconds. The transition time between messages and/or message
frames is limited to three (3) seconds and these transitions may employ fade,
dissolve, and/or other transition effects.
            (B)   In all other commercial and industrial zones, all EMC display
features and functions are permitted, with the exception of flashing, which is
prohibited, and full motion video or film display via an electronic file
imported into the EMC software and streamed in real time into the EMC is al
prohibited, unless permitted by special use permit.
      C.   Freestanding Freeway-Oriented Pole Signs (Billboards):
         1.   One (1) freestanding freeway-oriented pole sign may be permitted
only on commercial, industrial, public, semi-public or institutional lots or
parcels located within five hundred feet (500') of the I-84 Interstate.
         2.   Freestanding freeway-oriented pole signs shall be set back at
least thirty feet (30') from all property lines and shall have a minimum
separation distance of one thousand three hundred twenty feet (1,320'). This
measurement shall include signs along both sides of the interstate and not only
the signage along the side of the interstate where the sign is proposed to be
installed.
         3.   Freestanding freeway-oriented pole signs are limited to a maximum
square footage of six-hundred seventy-two (672) square feet and a maximum
height of sixty feet (60').
         4.   If the freestanding freeway-oriented pole sign is located
adjacent to street frontage other than the I-84 Interstate, the freestanding
freeway-oriented pole sign shall count towards the number of freestanding
monument signs permitted along the frontage. Where a property is only permitted
one (1) freestanding monument sign along a street frontage, and the property
owner desires to install a freestanding freeway-oriented pole sign in addition
to their allowed freestanding monument sign, a special use permit is required.
         5.   Sign permits are required prior to installation.
      D.   Building Signs:
         1.   Building signs include all wall, hanging, suspended, and
projecting signs.
         2.   Building signs affixed to a building are permitted on properties
used for commercial, industrial, public, semi-public or institutional purposes.
Multiple signs are permitted, but the total signage area shall not exceed
twenty percent (20%) of the total wall square footage upon which the sign(s) is
placed. Wall signs in these districts may be externally illuminated.
            (A)   Hanging, suspended and projecting signs which allow the sign
to swing shall not exceed sixteen (16) square feet.
            (B)   Hanging, suspended, and projecting signs shall have a minimum
clearance beneath the sign is twelve (12) feet.
            (C)   All signage types listed in subsection E above count towards
the overall maximum square footage of signs.
            (D)   Building signs shall not extend above the top of the building
wall upon which they are mounted
            (E)   Building signs shall not extend more than eighteen (18)
inches out from the wall or structure to which they are attached, with the
exception of projecting signs, which may project out a maximum of twenty-four
inches.
            (F)   Sign permits are required prior to the installation of any
sign.
      E.   Awning Signs:
         1.   One awning sign may be permitted per street frontage. The awning
sign shall be located completely on the awning valance. Content may be affixed
or applied to the face or side surfaces of an awning or backlit awning,
provided the copy area of any sign copy does not exceed twenty (20) percent of
the overall awning square footage. Awnings shall be a minimum of eight feet
(8') above sidewalk grade. Awning valances shall have an eighteen inches (18")
maximum height. For gas station canopy signs, see Specific Use Provisions in
10-12-03.
      F.   Window Signs:
         1.   Window signs are permitted in any window with street or alley
frontage. Window signs shall not occupy more than twenty-five (25) percent of
the window area on each building façade for security purposes.
      G.   Vehicle Signs at Car Lots:
         1.   One small flag of no more than one (1) square foot in area may be
attached to vehicles on display for sale or rent at vehicle sales and service
establishments. Such flag must be no higher than two feet (2') above the height
of the vehicle as if it were displayed at grade level.
   (3)   Residential Subdivisions, Apartment Complexes, Multi-Family
Developments, and Condominium Complexes:
      A.   One entry sign may be placed on each side of any entry road into the
subdivision, complex, or development. The applicant shall choose between
freestanding monument signs or wall signs that are placed upon a decorative
entry wall structure. Signs shall not exceed one hundred (100) square feet in
area and twenty feet (20') in height and may be externally illuminated. (Ord.
3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-06-9 D-CC, D-CB DISTRICTS; SIGN SCHEDULE:
   See
Article 8 of this chapter for sign requirements applicable to the downtown
districts. (Ord. 3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-06-10 A-D, C-D, H-D, PD DISTRICTS; SIGN SCHEDULE:
   (1)   Single-Family & Two-Family Residential Property:
      A.   All single-family and two-family residential properties located in
the RS-1, RS-2 and R-1 zoning districts are permitted signs not to exceed six
(6) square feet in total sign area per road frontage. Signs may be
freestanding, mounted to a permanent building or displayed in a window. The
maximum height of any sign on properties with single-family and two-family
residential uses is four (4) feet.
   (2)   Nonresidential Uses:
      A.   Freestanding Monument Signs:
         1.   The overall square footage of the signage shall not exceed the
provisions specified in
Table 2 below.
         2.   One sign is permitted on a site for every one-hundred foot (100')
of street frontage.
         3.   Such signage may be externally or internally illuminated.
         4.   An increase in sign height of up to fifty feet (50') within the
A-D may be requested by special use permit. In no case shall a permitted sign
or specially permitted sign be taller than the roofline of the tallest building
it serves.
         5.   Sign permits are required prior to installation.
Table 10-02-06-10: Freestanding Monument Signs on Nonresidential Properties
 Zoning Districts1,2
Table 10-02-06-10: Freestanding Monument Signs on Nonresidential Properties
                Zoning Districts1,2
Roadway         C-D             H-D             A-D             P-D
Private or      Max. 24 sq. ft. Max. 24 sq. ft. Max. 24 sq. ft. Max. 24 sq. ft.
local road      Max. 10' high   Max. 15' high   Max. 15' high   Max. 15' high
Minor Collector Max. 32 sq. ft. Max. 32 sq. ft. Max. 32 sq. ft. Max. 32 sq. ft.
                Max. 15' high   Max. 20' high   Max. 20' high   Max. 20' high
Minor Arterial  Max. 32 sq. ft. Max. 32 sq. ft. Max. 48 sq. ft. Max. 48 sq. ft.
                Max. 15' high   Max. 20' high   Max. 25' high   Max. 25' high
Major           Max. 48 sq. ft. Max. 48 sq. ft. Max. 48 sq. ft. Max. 48 sq. ft.
Collector3      Max. 20' high   Max. 25' high   Max. 30' high   Max. 30' high
Major Arterial3 Max. 48 sq. ft. Max. 48 sq. ft. Max. 48 sq. ft. Max. 48 sq. ft.
                Max. 20' high   Max. 25' high   Max. 30' high   Max. 30' high
Frontage along  Max. 100 sq.    Max. 100 sq.    Max. 100 sq.    Max. 100 sq.
Hwy 55, Hwy 20/ ft. Max. 40'    ft. Max. 40'    ft. Max. 40'    ft. Max. 40'
26 or I-84      high4           high4           high4           high4
Table Footnotes:
1   In no case shall a sign be higher than 25' when adjacent to a residential
use.
2   Signs may be internally or externally illuminated, except signs that are
adjacent to a residential neighborhood or residential use shall be externally
illuminated only.
3   Signs may be increased to a height of 50' for governmental, airport,
institutional or other similar use with a special use permit.
4   Where four or more buildings exist on a single parcel or are within the
same development, a freestanding monument may be increased to 200 square feet
of signage copy area with all other permitted freestanding monument signs
meeting the private or local road standards for height and area.
 
      B.   Electronic Message Centers or Changeable Copy Signs:
         1.   One (1) electronic message center or changeable copy sign may be
permitted on properties with permitted non-residential uses, only when it is
used in conjunction with, and as a part of, a permitted monument sign. The
electronic message center or changeable copy sign portion shall not exceed
twenty-five (25) percent of the permitted square footage of the monument sign.
         2.   All EMC signs shall have automatic dimming controls, either by
photocell (hardwired) or via software settings, in order to bring the EMC
lighting level down at night.
         3.   EMC signs shall have a minimum display time of eight (8) seconds.
The transition time between messages and/or message frames is limited to three
(3) seconds and these transitions may employ fade, dissolve, and/or other
transition effects. Except that when EMC signs are adjacent to an arterial or
major collector roadway, all EMC display features and functions are permitted,
with the exception of flashing, which is prohibited, and full motion video or
film display via an electronic file imported into the EMC software and streamed
in real time into the EMC is also prohibited, unless permitted by special use
permit.
      C.   Freestanding Freeway-Oriented Pole Signs:
         1.   One (1) freestanding freeway-oriented pole sign may be permitted
only on commercial, industrial, public, semi-public or institutional lots or
parcels located within five-hundred feet (500') of the I-84 Interstate.
         2.   Freestanding freeway-oriented pole signs shall be set back at
least thirty feet (30') from all property lines and shall have a minimum
separation distance of one thousand feet (1,000'). This measurement shall
include signs along both sides of the interstate and not only the signage along
the side of the interstate where the sign is proposed to be installed.
         3.   Freestanding freeway-oriented pole signs are limited to a maximum
square footage of six-hundred seventy-two (672) square feet and a maximum
height of fifty feet (50').
         4.   If the freestanding freeway-oriented pole sign is located
adjacent to street frontage other than the I-84 Interstate, the freestanding
freeway-oriented pole sign shall count towards the number of freestanding
monument signs permitted along the frontage. Where a property is only permitted
one (1) freestanding monument sign along a street frontage, and the property
owner desires to install a freestanding freeway-oriented pole sign, in addition
to their allowed freestanding monument sign, a special use permit is required.
         5.   Sign permits are required prior to installation.
      D.   Building Signs:
         1.   Building signs (wall, hanging, suspended and projecting signs)
signs affixed to a building wall or facade are permitted for properties with
permitted non-residential uses. Multiple signs are permitted, but the total
signage area shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the area of the wall/ façade
in elevation view upon which the sign(s) are placed. Wall signs in these
districts may be externally illuminated.
         2.   Hanging, suspended and projecting signs which allow the sign to
swing shall not exceed sixteen (16) square feet.
         3.   Building signs shall not extend more than eighteen (18) inches
out from the wall or structure to which they are attached, with the exception
of projecting signs, which may project out a maximum of twenty-four inches.
         4.   Hanging, suspended and projecting signs shall have a minimum
clearance beneath the sign is twelve feet (12').
         5.   Sign permits are required prior to installation.
      E.   Awning Signs:
         1.   One awning sign may be permitted per street frontage. The awning
sign shall be located completely on the awning valance. Content may be affixed
or applied to the face or side surfaces of an awning or backlit awning,
provided the copy area of any sign copy does not exceed twenty (20) percent of
the overall awning square footage. Awnings shall be a minimum of eight feet
(8') above sidewalk grade. Awning valances shall have an eighteen inches (18")
maximum height. Sign permits are required prior to sign and awning
installation.
      F.   Window Signs:
         1.   Window signs are permitted in any window with street or alley
frontage. Window signs shall not occupy more than twenty-five (25) percent of
the window area on each building façade for security purposes.
   (3)   Residential Subdivisions, Apartment Complexes, Multi-Family
Developments, and Condominium Complexes:
      A.   One entry sign may be placed on each side of any entry road into the
subdivision, complex, or development. The applicant shall choose between
freestanding monument signs or wall signs that are placed upon a decorative
entry wall structure. Signs shall not exceed sixty (60) square feet in area and
fifteen feet (15') in height and may be externally illuminated.
      B.   Other directional, incidental and/or accessory signs are also
permitted to be located within the subdivision, complex or multi-family
development. Such directional, incidental and/or accessory signs shall not
exceed six (6) square feet in sign area and eight (8) feet in height (if
freestanding).
      C.   A sign permit is required prior to installation. (Ord. 3662, 4-21-
2025)
10-02-06-11 TEMPORARY SIGNS:
   (1)   Signs that meet the standards of this subsection are exempt from the
standards for permanent signs and are not counted in the total square footage
of signage allowed on any particular property or site. Signs that do not meet
the standards of this subsection are subject to the standards for permanent
signage.
   (2)   Banners in Residential Zones: In all residential zones, banners are
not permitted on sites with houses, duplexes and attached houses. Exception:
banners for holidays, religious commemoration, and special family events.
   (3)   Banners in the T-N Zone: Banners of any kind are prohibited within the
T-N zone, except as otherwise specified in (5) below.
   (4)   In the commercial, industrial and special purpose districts, one
banner no larger than thirty-two (32) square feet in size is permitted per
property, or, on a multi-use property, per storefront.
   (5)   Banner in Lieu of Permanent Wall Sign: One (1) wall banner is allowed
per storefront in lieu of a permanent wall sign, only while the permanent wall
sign is being fabricated. The maximum size of the temporary wall banner is
thirty-two (32) square feet and may only be displayed for a maximum of ninety
(90) days.
   (6)   Temporary signs shall not be internally or externally illuminated.
   (7)   For the purposes of this section, multifamily apartments and
multifamily developments are considered commercial. (Ord. 3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-06-12 DESIGN STANDARDS:
   (1)   All signs shall use quality materials that emulate the buildings on
the site.
   (2)   Signs must be harmonious with the building scale and shall not
visually dominate the structure to which it belongs or call undue attention to
itself.
   (3)   Monument signs shall include a minimum base height of 25 percent (25%)
of the signs total height and include quality materials, such as brick, stone,
and/or stucco, and shall be of colors that emulate the principal building.
   (4)   Landscaping: All permanent freestanding signs shall be landscaped in
accordance with the requirements listed in the landscaping ordinance. The
minimum required landscaped area for each permanent freestanding/monument sign
shall be equal to or exceed the total square footage area of the face of one
side of the sign(s).
   (5)   Illumination: Where illumination of signs is permitted, the following
standards shall apply:
      A.   Lighting for signs shall not create a hazardous glare for
pedestrians or motorists either in a public street or on any private premises.
      B.   The light source, whether internal to the sign or external, shall be
shielded from view. This requirement is not intended to preclude the use of
diffused exposed neon.
      C.   Sign illumination for externally illuminated signs shall have
lighting fixtures or luminaires that are fully shielded that do not allow light
or glare to shine above the horizontal plane of the top of the sign or onto any
public right-of-way or adjoining property.
      D.   No electronic message center sign shall be erected without a light
detector/photocell by which the sign’s brightness can be dimmed when ambient
light conditions darken.
      E.   A sign in any district may be illuminated at night. Signs that are
illuminated at night may not exceed a maximum luminance level of seven hundred
fifty (750) cd/m2 or Nits, regardless of illumination method.
   (6)   Design, Preparation and Construction: All signage, including temporary
signage, shall be designed, prepared and constructed by a professional (e.g.,
architect, building designer, landscape architect, interior designer, or others
whose principal business is the design, manufacture, or sale of signs) or
others capable of producing professional results.
   (7)   Nonconforming Signs: Any permanent sign existing at the time of the
enactment of this section which does not conform to its provisions, but which
was originally erected in accordance with previously adopted regulations shall
be deemed a legal nonconforming sign. Such a sign, if properly maintained, may
be continued under the following conditions:
      A.   Whenever a nonconforming sign has been damaged to more than one-half
(1/2) of its replacement value, it shall be totally removed, not be repaired or
replaced.
      B.   Whenever a nonconforming sign has been structurally altered,
relocated or replaced, it shall immediately conform to the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-06-13 NONCONFORMING AND ABANDONED SIGNS:
   (1)   Nonconforming Signs: Any permanent sign existing at the time of the
enactment of this section which does not conform to its provisions, but which
was originally erected in accordance with previously adopted regulations shall
be deemed a legal nonconforming sign. Such a sign, if properly maintained, may
be continued under the following conditions:
      A.   Whenever a nonconforming sign has been damaged to more than one-half
(1/2) of its replacement value, it shall be totally removed, not be repaired or
replaced.
      B.   Whenever a nonconforming sign has been structurally altered,
relocated or replaced, it shall immediately conform to the provisions of this
chapter.
   (2)   Abandoned Signs:
      A.   Abandoned Nonconforming Sign: Except as otherwise provided in this
code, any sign located on property which pertains to a use which no longer
applies to that property and that has been continuously vacant for a period of
time exceeding six (6) months shall be deemed as abandoned. A nonconforming
abandoned sign is prohibited and shall be immediately removed upon notice by
the city or brought into full compliance by the owner of the sign or owner of
the property.
      B.   Abandoned Conforming Sign: Except as otherwise provided in this
code, any sign located on property which pertains to a use which no longer
applies to that property and that has been continuously vacant for a period of
time exceeding six (6) months should be deemed as abandoned. A conforming
abandoned sign structure may remain, but all sign content should be removed.
Such sign structures must be maintained in an aesthetically pleasing manner.
(Ord. 3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-06-14 ENFORCEMENT:
   (1)   The director and/or his/her duly authorized representatives are
authorized and directed to enforce all the provisions of this section. Said
director and/or representatives may enter at reasonable times any building,
structure or premises in the city to make an inspection of a sign, its
structural and electrical connections and ensure compliance with any provisions
of this article, including repair or structural alteration for safety of signs
which present a hazard to the public. City staff is authorized to immediately
remove any signs located in the right of way or vision triangle area without
notification.
   (2)   Violations shall be handled through the process outlined in section
10-03-10 of this chapter, with the option of being prosecuted for a misdemeanor
as set forth in this chapter and at the discretion of the director. (Ord. 3662,
4-21-2025)
10-02-07 FENCING REGULATIONS:
   (1)   Purpose: To establish standards for the placement of fences.
   (2)   General Provisions:
      A.   For the purposes of this section, walls, latticework, and screening
materials shall be considered fences (and shall be used interchangeably) and
shall be built and maintained in compliance with the provisions herein.
Landscaping, shrubs, plants, etc., are not considered fences and do not need to
comply with the provisions contained in this section but must comply with all
provisions contained in article 2 of this chapter. Fence posts, gates, and
other fencing materials installed on a property shall also be in compliance
with the provisions herein, including but not limited to height, setback, and
material.
      B.   No fence shall be constructed or installed in any zoning district
without conforming to these regulations, except those within the C-C City
Center Zoning District which has its own fencing regulations as noted in
Article 10 of this chapter. Additionally, fencing within a designated historic
district must comply with all the fencing regulations as listed in this
section, as well as complying with all fencing regulations as required in
chapter 2, article 17 of this Code (Caldwell Historic Preservation Commission).
      C.   Fences shall be built entirely upon the property they are intended
to serve.
      D.   Fences built across or on easements must allow access to the
entitled parties of the easements for maintenance purposes. Should maintenance
by entitled parties of said easements result in damage or dislocation of
fences, the owner of the property on which said fence is located, at his/her
expense, shall be responsible for any repairs or reconstruction of said fences.
      E.   The property owner shall be responsible for keeping fences
structurally sound so as to not endanger life, property or become a nuisance
and for keeping fences free from advertising (except for that advertising which
is allowed under section
10-02-06 of this article), prohibited signage as per the sign ordinance, and
graffiti.
      F.   Fencing over three feet (3') in height shall not be allowed, placed,
erected, or constructed in any “vision triangle” as defined below.
         1.   “Vision triangle”: Defined as measuring from the intersection of
the edges of two (2) adjacent roadways forty feet (40') along each roadway and
connecting the two (2) points with a straight line. The edge of the roadway
shall be defined as the curb or where the curb would be if no curb is
installed. Driveways are not considered roadways for this definition.
      G.   The International Building Code requires building permits for some
fences and/or walls. See the Building Safety Division for permit requirements.
      H.   Fences are not required anywhere in the City except as may be
required for sight obstruction and/or screening. Certain uses may be declared
by the City to possess characteristics such that sight obstruction and
screening is required to prevent damage, hazard, nuisance, or other detriment
to the public health, safety, or welfare.
         1.   The following uses, at the discretion of the Community
Development Director, may be declared as requiring a sight obscuring fence,
unless otherwise specifically required elsewhere in this chapter:
            (A)   Automotive uses (automotive storage, repair, etc.).
            (B)   Industrial uses.
            (C)   Junkyard.
            (D)   Recycling operation.
            (E)   Sanitary landfill.
            (F)   Storage businesses.
            (G)   Wrecking/salvage yard.
            (H)   Outdoor Storage.
            (I)   Other uses not specifically listed above but determined by
the Community Development Director to be similar in nature to the
aforementioned uses.
         2.   Requirements for sight obscuring fences:
            (A)   Shall be solid or nonvision.
            (B)   The solid or nonvision portion shall be no less than six feet
(6') and no more than eight (8) feet in height, as measured from the ground on
which the fence is to be placed.
            (C)   Shall completely obscure from outside view the use requiring
site obstruction.
      I.   While the City generally prohibits the placement of fencing in
public right-of-way areas along residential zones, fencing that is placed in a
public right-of-way in a residentially zoned area, whether intentionally or
accidentally, is subject to the following conditions whether the fencing is
placed in existing or future public right-of-way areas when in residential
zones:
         1.   Fencing shall be removed by and at the property owner’s expense
within five (5) days of a request by the City to remove said fencing;
         2.   Fencing can be removed by the City after the five (5) day
deadline has expired, without the property owner’s permission and without
compensation to the property owner, and with or without notification, as
necessary for utility or right-of-way maintenance/improvements for any existing
or future public right-of-way area.
   (3)   Prohibited Fencing:
      A.   Electric, concertina, barbed or razor wire fences in all zoning
districts shall be prohibited excepting:
         1.   Livestock containment areas for horses or other permitted farm
animals in any zoning district may utilize electric or barbed wire fences.
         2.   Commercial and industrial zoning districts may utilize electric,
concertina, barbed or razor wire fencing, but only as the top section of the
fence. The beginning of said top section must be at least six feet (6') above
grade. This exclusion shall not apply along the front property line and the
side property lines within twenty feet (20') of the front property line for all
properties fronting a minor or major arterial roadway.
         3.   Public correctional or penal facilities are exempted from this
prohibition regardless of the zoning district in which they reside.
      B.   Fencing Materials: The following materials shall not be utilized for
fencing:
         1.   Boxes.
         2.   Sheet or corrugated metal.
         3.   Broken or decaying wood.
         4.   Broken masonry blocks.
         5.   Sheets of plywood.
         6.   Cinder blocks.
         7.   Hubcaps.
         8.   Tires.
         9.   Other unsightly materials as determined by the Director.
      C.   Fencing shall not be allowed within a street landscape buffer area
as listed in subsection
10-02-09-7 of this chapter unless approved by the Director.
      D.   Decorative corrugated metal may be used as fencing material on a
case-by-case basis as determined by the Director. To be considered for approval
it must meet the following standards:
         1.   The fencing is not facing a public roadway, and
         2.   If located within any residential zone or abutting a residential
zoned property, all exposed edges along the top and outer sides of the
decorative corrugated metal fence must be dressed so that no sharp edges are
exposed.
   (4)   Zoning District Standards:
      A.   Residential districts (RS-1, RS-2, R-1, R-2, R-3), College District
(C-D), and residential uses in all other districts (unless specifically stated
otherwise):
         1.   Interior Lots:
            (A)   Front Yard Property Line And Setback Area:
               i.   Open fencing height: Maximum four feet (4'),
notwithstanding height limitations in vision triangle areas.
               ii.   Solid fencing height: Maximum three feet (3').
               iii.   Setback: Five feet (5') from an existing curb with no
sidewalk or flush along the edge of an existing sidewalk.
            (B)   Interior Side And Rear Property Line And Setback Area:
               i.   Open fencing height: Maximum six feet (6') along the rear
property line and the side property line. Except that, as the fence runs along
the side property line, once it reaches twenty feet (20') from the front
property line, the maximum height is four feet (4'), notwithstanding height
limitations in vision triangle areas.
               ii.   Solid fencing height: Maximum six feet (6') along the rear
property line and the side property line. Except that, as the fence runs along
the side property line, once it reaches twenty feet (20') from the front
property line, the maximum height is three feet (3').
               iii.   Setback: No setback from either the side or the rear
property line.
         2.   Corner Lots:
            (A)   Front Yard Property Line And Setback Area:
               i.   Open fencing height: Maximum four feet (4'),
notwithstanding height limitations in vision triangle areas.
                  ii.   Solid fencing height: Maximum three feet (3').
                  iii.   Setback: Five feet (5') from an existing curb with no
sidewalk or flush along the edge of an existing sidewalk.
            (B)   Interior Side And Rear Property Line And Setback Area:
               i.   Open fencing height: Maximum six feet (6') along the rear
property line and the interior side property line. Except that, as the fence
runs along the side property line, once it reaches twenty feet (20') from the
front property line, the maximum height is four feet (4'), notwithstanding
height limitations in vision triangle areas.
               ii.   Solid fencing height: Maximum six feet (6') along the rear
property line and the interior side property line. Except that, as the fence
runs along the interior side property line, once it reaches twenty feet (20')
from the front property line, the maximum height is three feet (3').
               ii.   Setback: No setback from either the side or the rear
property line.
            (C)   Side Property Line And Setback Area Adjoining A Street:
Fencing shall comply with the following standards:
               i.   Open fencing height: Maximum four feet (4') along the side
property line, notwithstanding height limitations in vision triangle areas,
and;
               ii.   Setback: Five feet (5') from back of an existing sidewalk
or property line with no sidewalk.
                  Or:
               iii.   Open and solid fencing height: Maximum six feet (6'),
notwithstanding height limitations in vision triangle areas; and
               iv.   Setback: Ten feet (10') from back of an existing sidewalk
or property line with no sidewalk.
         3.   Maximum Height: For purposes of this section, maximum height is
above the grade as measured at the point/line upon which the fence shall sit,
and includes lattices and berms. Additional height shall be allowed for arbors,
arches and/or other architectural appurtenances extending over gates and/or
other entryways, as well as gateposts, said appurtenances and gateposts not
exceeding eight feet (8') maximum height.
      B.   Commercial, industrial, public, and special purpose districts (C-1,
C-2, C-3, C-4, M-1, M-2, I-P, A-D, H-D, P-D):
         1.   Interior and corner lots:
            (A)   All Yard Property Lines And Setback Areas:
               i.   Open or solid fencing height: Maximum eight feet (8'),
notwithstanding height limitations in vision triangle areas.
               ii.   Setback: Front setback shall be equal to the required
width of the landscape buffer for the property as listed in subsection 10-07-08
(3) of this chapter. No other setbacks are required.
      C.   Steunenberg residential historical district:
         1.   Interior lots:
            (A)   Front Yard Property Line And Setback Area:
               i.   Open fencing height: Maximum four feet (4'),
notwithstanding height limitations in vision triangle areas.
               ii.   Solid fencing: Maximum three feet (3').
               iii.   Setback: Five feet (5') from an existing curb with no
sidewalk or flush along the edge of an existing sidewalk.
            (B)   Side And Rear Property Line And Setback Area:
               i.   Open fencing height: Maximum six feet (6') along the rear
property line and the side property line. Except that, as the fence runs along
the side property line, once it reaches twenty feet (20') from the front
property line, the maximum height is four feet (4'), notwithstanding height
limitations in vision triangle areas.
               ii.   Solid fencing height: Maximum six feet (6') along the rear
property line and the side property line. Except that, as the fence runs along
the side property line, once it reaches twenty feet (20') from the front
property line, the maximum height is three feet (3').
               iii.   Setback: No setback from either the side or the rear
property line.
         2.   Corner lots:
            (A)   Front Yard Property Line And Setback Area:
               i.   Open fencing height: Maximum four feet (4'),
notwithstanding height limitations in vision triangle areas.
               ii.   Solid fencing: Maximum three feet (3').
               iii.   Setback: Five feet (5') from an existing curb with no
sidewalk or flush along the edge of an existing sidewalk.
            (B)   Interior Side And Rear Property Line And Setback Area:
               i.   Open fencing height: Maximum six feet (6') along the rear
property line and the interior side property line. Except that, as the fence
runs along the interior side property line, once it reaches twenty feet (20')
from the front property line, the maximum height is four feet (4'),
notwithstanding height limitations in vision triangle areas.
               ii.   Solid fencing height: Maximum six feet (6') along the rear
property line and the interior side property line. Except that, as the fence
runs along the interior side property line, once it reaches twenty feet (20')
from the front property line, the maximum height is three feet (3').
               iii.   Setback: No setback from either the side or the rear
property line.
            (C)   Side Property Line And Setback Area Adjoining A Street:
               i.   Open and solid fencing height: Maximum four feet (4') along
the side property line, notwithstanding height limitations in vision triangle
areas.
               ii.   Setback: Five feet (5') from an existing curb with no
sidewalk or flush along the edge of an existing sidewalk.
                  Or:
               iii.   Open and solid fencing height: Maximum six feet (6')
along the side property line, notwithstanding height limitations in vision
triangle areas.
               iv.   Setback: Ten feet (10') from an existing curb with no
sidewalk and five feet (5') from the edge of an existing sidewalk.
         3.   Chainlink fencing, as well as vinyl fencing, shall be prohibited
within the Steunenberg residential historic district. Existing fences of these
materials may remain, but no new construction of chainlink or vinyl fencing
shall be permitted to occur. When an existing chainlink or vinyl fence needs to
be repaired, such repairs may include a replacement of the existing materials,
but no new sections of the prohibited chainlink or vinyl may be added.
         4.   Any fence installed after December 1, 2019, which fence has
street frontage, shall be installed so that the “finished” or “good” side of
the fence faces the exterior of the property.
   (5)   Nonconforming Fences:
      A.   Fences which are nonconforming for any reason, but were in place
prior to the adoption date hereof, may continue if maintained in good condition
and repair and provided they do not impede the safety of motorists or otherwise
present a hazard. Safety and/or hazardous issues shall be remedied immediately.
      B.   Fences constructed or erected after the adoption date hereof that do
not comply with the standards as listed in this section shall immediately be
removed. Prior to any removal, the property owner shall be afforded an
opportunity for a hearing before the council; said hearing must be requested
within seven (7) days of receipt of a notice of order to remove a fence and
shall follow the public hearing process. Failure to request such a hearing will
result in the property owner immediately removing the fence.
      C.   A property owner that wishes to construct a fence, which would be
noncompliant with the standards as listed in this section, may obtain approval
through an Administrative Determination from the Director.
      D.   Any person or corporation, whether owner, lessee, principal agent,
employee or otherwise, who violates any of the provisions of this section or
permits any such violation or fails to comply with any of the requirements
approved under this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor statute contained
in section 18-113, Idaho Code. Each day’s continued violation shall constitute
a separate additional violation. Upon conviction of any violation of any of the
provisions of this section, such person shall be punished by a fine of not more
than three hundred dollars ($300.00) for each day’s separate offense or by
imprisonment of not more than thirty (30) days, or a combination of fine and
imprisonment.(Ord. 3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-08 NONCONFORMING USES:
   (1)   Purpose:
      A.   Establish standards for nonconforming uses, structures and buildings
and their continuance or discontinuance thereof.
      B.   Establish standards for enlargement, extension, construction,
reconstruction, movement or structural alteration of nonconforming structures,
buildings, or uses.
      C.   Establish nonconforming uses deemed as permitted.
      D.   Establish nonconforming lots of record.
   (2)   General Provisions:
      A.   Any structure, building or use lawfully occupying a structure,
building or land at the effective date of the zoning ordinance, said effective
date being December 13, 1977, or subsequent amendments thereto or at the time
of annexation or rezone, which does not conform with the regulations of the
zoning district in which it is located shall be deemed a nonconforming use and
may continue to operate as it did prior to the effective date of the zoning
ordinance, subsequent amendments thereto, or annexation or rezone.
      B.   No existing nonconforming structure or building devoted to a use not
permitted by this chapter in the district in which it is located shall be
enlarged, extended, constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered
except in changing the use of the structure or building to a use permitted in
the district in which it is located. (Ord. 2739, 6-16-2008)
         1. Except that if a structure or building is destroyed by fire, flood
or other natural disaster, the structure or building may be replaced to its
original size and use, including the replacement of more than one primary
building on a single parcel or lot (no expansions allowed), prior to the
destruction with the provision that all current city codes (examples:
landscaping, setbacks, infrastructure, etc.) shall be met in replacing the
structure or building with the exception of use. A building permit to replace
said structure or building must be secured within twelve (12) months from the
time of the structure or building being destroyed. If the building permit is
not secured within the twelve (12) month time frame the land shall thereafter
be used in conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is
located. Any expansions would require compliance with section
10-02-02, “Land Use Schedule”,
table 1 of this article in addition to compliance with all other current city
codes. (Ord. 2967, 7-21-2014)
      C.   No nonconforming use shall be enlarged, expanded or extended to
occupy any additional land area, other than to enlarge, expand or extend said
use to the property boundary lines in existence at the time of adoption of the
zoning ordinance, except in changing the use to a use permitted in the district
in which it is located.
      D.   Any land use, structure or building, or structure or building and
land use in combination, in or on which a nonconforming use is discontinued and
subsequently replaced by a permitted use, shall thereafter conform to the
regulations for the district, and the nonconforming use may not thereafter be
resumed, nor shall any other nonconforming use take place.
      E. Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure or building and
land use in combination, removal or destruction of the structure or building
shall eliminate the nonconforming status of the land and the land shall
thereafter be used in conformity with the regulations of the district in which
it is located. (Ord. 2739, 6-16-2008)
         1.   Except that when destruction of the structure or building and
land use in combination occurs by fire, flood or other natural disaster, the
structure or building and land use in combination may be replaced to its
original size and use prior to the destruction, including replacement of more
than one primary building on a single parcel or lot, with the provision that
all current city codes (examples: landscaping, setbacks, infrastructure, etc.)
shall be met in replacing the structure or building with the exception of use.
A building permit to replace said structure or building must be secured within
twelve (12) months from the time of the structure or building being destroyed.
If the building permit is not secured within the twelve (12) month time frame
the land shall thereafter be used in conformity with the regulations of the
district in which it is located. Any expansions to size or use would require
compliance with section
10-02-02, “Land Use Schedule”,
table 1 of this article in addition to compliance with all other current city
codes. (Ord. 2967, 7-21-2014)
      F.   On any nonconforming structure or building, or portion of a
structure or building containing a nonconforming use, work may be done on
ordinary repairs or on repair or replacement of nonbearing walls, fixtures,
wiring, plumbing, painting, roofing or siding; provided, that the area existing
when it became nonconforming shall not be increased. Nothing in this section
shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or restoring to a safe condition
of any structure or building or part thereof declared to be unsafe by any
official charged with protecting the public safety upon order of such official.
      G.   The provisions of this section apply to the entire zoning ordinance
unless specifically stated otherwise in a specific section.
      (3)   Discontinuance Of Nonconforming Uses:
         A.   Discontinuance, Vacation, Or Clear Intent To Abandon: Whenever a
nonconforming use, structure or building has been discontinued or vacated for a
period of one consecutive year, or whenever there is evidence of a clear intent
to abandon a nonconforming use, structure or building, such use, structure or
building shall not thereafter be reestablished, and the use of the premises
thereafter shall be in conformity with the regulations of the underlying zone
district.
         B.   Exceptions: Provided, however, that if the property has
improvements designed for a use which is nonconforming pursuant to the terms of
this section, the owner shall retain the right to use said improvements for
their designed purpose, notwithstanding a period of nonuse, subject to the
following exceptions:
            1.   The nonuse of the improvements for their designed purpose
continues for a period of ten (10) years or more;
            2.   During nonuse of the improvements for their designed purpose,
the improvements are used for a different approved or unlawful use;
            3.   The improvements are redesigned for a use other than their
designed purpose; or
            4.   Failure of the owner to comply with the provisions of this
section.
         C.   Notification Of Intention To Continue Nonuse: If the nonuse of an
improvement described in subsection (3)A of this section continues for a period
of one year or longer, the city may, by written request, require the owner to
declare his intention with respect to the continued nonuse of the improvement
in writing within twenty-eight (28) days after receipt of the request. If the
owner elects to continue the nonuse, he shall notify the city in writing of his
intention and:
            1.   Post the property in at least one place with a notice of his
intent to continue the nonuse of the improvement and a description of its
designed purpose. Notices shall be posted using signs of sixteen (16) square
feet each or greater, visible from adjoining public rights of way, constructed
in permanent all weather materials and maintained by the owner for the entire
period of nonuse; and
            2.   Publish a notice of intent to continue the nonuse of the
improvement and a description of its designed purpose in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city where the property is located.
            3.   For the purposes of this section, “designed purpose” means the
use for which the improvements were originally intended, designed and approved
pursuant to any applicable planning and zoning ordinances.
            4.   Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to
prohibit the city from passing or enforcing any other law or ordinance for the
protection of the public health, safety and welfare. (Ord. 2739, 6-16-2008)
   (4)   Nonconforming Uses Deemed Permitted:
      A.   Any legally existing residential use, structure or building, whether
vacant or occupied, and including mobile homes and manufactured homes as
defined in section
10-03-11 of this chapter, located in any zoning district, in existence as of
the effective date of this section, said effective date being December 13,
1977, or subsequent amendments thereto, or at the time of annexation or rezone,
shall not be considered to be a nonconforming use, but rather shall be deemed a
permitted use, until such time that said legally existing residential use,
structure or building is replaced with another permitted or approved special
use.
      B.   Any legally existing residential structure or building that has been
thus deemed permitted as set forth in subsection (4)A of this section shall
have all the privileges of a permitted residential structure or building and
the structure or building may be enlarged, replaced, altered, expanded,
reconstructed and/or remodeled if a building permit has been obtained from the
building official.
      C.   Any legally existing residential use that has been thus deemed
permitted as set forth in subsection (4)A of this section may continue as a
permitted use. However, said use may not be expanded to a use not permitted in
the underlying zoning district (i.e., duplex cannot become a triplex if not
allowed as a permitted use in the underlying zoning district).
      D.   At such time that said existing permitted use, structure or building
as set forth in subsection (4)A of this section is replaced with another
permitted use or approved special use or is vacant for more than three hundred
sixty-five (365) consecutive days, said existing permitted use, structure or
building shall become null and void and shall not be reestablished thereafter.
(Ord. 2739, 6-16-2008)
   (5)   Nonconforming Lots Of Record:
      A.   In any residential zoning district, any single lot or single parcel
of land which was of record as a single lot or single parcel of land and a
legal lot at the time of adoption of the city of Caldwell zoning ordinance
(December 13, 1977) or annexation or rezone, whichever has occurred first, but
does not meet the requirements of the residential zoning district in which it
is located for the minimum lot width, minimum lot area or minimum lot frontage,
may be utilized for a single-family dwelling if all other requirements of this
code are met, a building permit has been issued by the building official, and
the lot or parcel has a minimum of twenty feet (20') of frontage on a public
street, excluding alleys. (Ord. 2805, 11-2-2009)
      B.   This does not preclude building codes or fire codes, nor does it
preclude any existing or planned drainage, irrigation, municipal sewer,
municipal water or utility easements, public right of way or future public
right of way.
      C.   The burden of proof to show a lot of record to be nonconforming
shall be upon the property owner. (Ord. 2739, 6-16-2008)
10-02-09 LANDSCAPING, BUFFERING AND SCREENING:
10-02-09-1 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
   (1)   Purpose: To promote landscaping and tree installation and maintenance
and to preserve and protect riparian, wetland, and wildlife areas in the City
of Caldwell that will improve community livability, protect property values,
preserve the quality of life, and improve the city’s general appearance,
economic viability, and environmental health.
   (2)   Applicability: This full article shall apply in the following
situations, unless otherwise noted:
      A.   Residential subdivisions and/or developments.
      B.   Commercial subdivision(s) and/or development(s).
      C.   Industrial subdivision(s) and/or development(s).
      D.   Special use permits.
      E.   Subdivisions and/or developments with riparian, wetlands, and/or
wildlife areas.
      F.   All mixed-use subdivision(s) and/or development(s).
      G.   Planned unit developments.
      H.   Manufactured home communities / developments
      I.   Rezones, annexations, or simple lot splits.
      J.   New construction of principal structures, and additions or accessory
structures that exceed twenty-five (25) percent of the gross floor area of the
principal structure or one thousand (1,000) square feet, whichever is less.
      K.   Change of use, as determined by the Director or their designee.
      L.   Establishment of new uses, buildings, or structures on properties
that have been vacant or without a tenant for a period exceeding twelve (12)
consecutive months.
      M.   Reconstruction or expansion of landscaping or parking facilities and
infrastructure.
      N.   Exterior building renovations and routine maintenance and upkeep are
excluded from the requirements of this section. (Ord. 3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-09-2 LANDSCAPE PLAN PREPARATION, REQUIREMENTS, AND SUBMITTAL:
   (1)   Plan Preparation:
      A.   Landscaping plans shall be prepared by a landscape architect, a
landscape designer, or a qualified nursery person.
      B.   Landscape plans shall be stamped by a licensed landscape architect
for all projects over two (2) acres in size.
   (2)   Plan Requirements:
      A.   Detailed plans shall be at a scale no smaller than one-inch equals
thirty feet (1" = 30').
      B.   Plans shall be submitted in accordance with the requirements as
determined by Planning and Zoning and shall include all data and information as
specified on the appropriate applications and/or checklists as necessary to
ensure the fullest presentation of facts. The Director or their assignees shall
have the authority to require any additional information or data necessary to
aid in understanding and reviewing the application
   (3)   Plan Modifications: Once the landscaping plan has been approved by
planning and zoning division staff or through a public hearing process, no
modifications can be made to the plan nor can field changes be made without
first submitting the appropriate review application, along with the revised
landscaping plan and a detailed explanation of the requested modification(s).
Approved changes to the landscape plan must be documented prior to issuance of
a certificate of occupancy or certificate of compliance, whichever is
applicable. (Ord. 3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-09-3 GENERAL LANDSCAPE CRITERIA AND INSTALLATION PRACTICES:
   (1)   Tree Planting: All tree planting shall be based on the “Treasure
Valley Tree Selection Guide.”
   (2)   Selection From List: At least seventy-five percent (75%) of the
proposed trees and shrubs shall be rated as “low water” or “moderate water”
demand with trees selected from the list of species outlined in the publication
titled “Treasure Valley Tree Selection Guide” Any deviations from this list
must be approved by planning and zoning.
   (3)   Prohibited Plant Material: Prohibited plant material shall include any
that is considered poisonous, toxic, or otherwise poses a nuisance. The plants
listed as Trees Not Permitted for Rights-of-Way Property Planting in the
Treasure Valley Tree Selection Guide are prohibited from being planted along
any street or within any parking lot
   (4)   Substitution: Use of artificial plants, turf, or carpeting cannot
substitute for required landscape plant material.
   (5)   Landscape Materials and Groundcover: The following requirements are
for areas outside of the public rights-of-way. See Section
10-02-09-11(1) A for right-of-way requirements.
      A.   The number of trees and tree spacing shall be in compliance with
each subsection of this Article (10-02-09) including, but not limited to, all
required landscape buffers, common open spaces, right-of-way, parking lot
landscaping, and pathway landscaping.
         1.   Except, within the APO-1 overlay zone, the minimum tree planting
requirement is not applicable to minimize conflicts with aircraft and airport
operations. For each tree that would have been required, two (2) additional
shrubs shall be required as mitigation.
      B.   Turf grass/sod as a groundcover shall be a minimum of 20% coverage
but shall not exceed 50% coverage area of required landscaped areas and
required open space areas; native grasses requiring minimal irrigation are
encouraged. Areas utilized for play/sports fields or other utilitarian purposes
are exempt from this requirement.
      C.   Shrubs, perennials, native grasses, and other vegetative groundcover
besides turf grass shall constitute a minimum of 50% of required landscape
areas. Areas utilized for play/sports fields or other utilitarian purposes are
exempt from this requirement. Non-vegetative materials, such as decorative
rock, bark, and perma-bark, shall not count towards the minimum landscape
requirement.
      D.   Boulders and rock slabs are prohibited in public rights-of-way but
are encouraged within the landscape buffer areas on private property.
      E.   If the location of any utility facility, utility easement, or
service area required by adopted City or utility provider standards prevents
the location of trees, shrubs, or other landscaping in locations required by
this Section, the applicant shall be required to install an equivalent number
of trees, shrubs, or landscaping in other landscaped areas of the site.
   (6)   Minimum Plant Sizes at Time of Planting:
 
Planting Type       Minimum Size at Time Planting
Evergreen trees     6-foot height minimum
Ornamental trees    2-inch caliper minimum
Shade trees         2-inch caliper minimum
Shrubs & Perennials 10" height and/or spread minimum, depending on plant
                    species
 
      Alternative plant standards may be considered through the submission of
an Alternative Methods of Compliance Application.
   (7)   Standards Met: All plant material installed pursuant to this article
shall meet or exceed the minimum Federal standards as regulated by ANSI Z60.1,
American standard for nursery stock.
   (8)   Placement Prohibited: The placement of impermeable plastic weed
barrier under mulch is prohibited.
   (9)   Mulch: Organic mulch, such as bark, Perma bark, or other soil aids,
shall be applied and maintained in all planting areas at a minimum two-inch
depth, for moisture retention, weed control and soil temperature moderation.
Rock mulch is prohibited in required landscape beds unless specifically
approved through the Alternative Methods of Compliance (
10-03-16) process.
   (10)   Protective Devices: Vertical curbing of some kind shall be provided
around all planting areas that border driveways, parking lots, and other
vehicle use areas, including, but not limited to, street landscape buffers,
perimeter landscaping, and landscape planter islands. The curbing shall be of a
sufficient height to retain all groundcover material and may require a six inch
(6") vertical concrete curb with a concrete gutter pan. Planting edge
protection shall be required between property lines and planting areas to
ensure landscape material and water run-off remains on-site.
   (11)   Wash Off: Facilities constructed for water and drainage purposes
shall be designed so that no soil, bark, mulch, or other similar materials
shall be allowed to wash off the landscape area.
   (12)   Construction Within the Tree’s Drip Line:
      A.   Impervious surfaces like sidewalks should be set back from the tree
trunk equal to its diameter at maturity plus five feet (5'), except for parking
lot planting islands.
      B.   Grade changes greater than six inches (6") are prohibited within the
drip line.
      C.   A simple fence or barrier that encloses the entire area beneath the
tree canopy should be installed prior to commencing construction activity to
reduce damage to a tree’s root system. (Ord. 2661, 1-7-2008)
   (13)   Utilities, Easements and Service Areas:
      A.   Only Class 1 may be planted below or within ten (10) lateral feet of
any overhead utility wire.
      B.   All trees shall be planted outside of any underground utility
easement unless written approval has been obtained from the easement holder.
      C.   Underground utilities installed by means of trenching shall be
placed outside of any existing tree’s drip line. Underground utilities
installed by means of tunneling may be installed within the tree’s drip line,
provided the tunneling occurs at a minimum of three feet (3') below existing
grade.
      D.   Excavation in the soil within one foot (1') of the tree’s roots is
prohibited unless appropriate measures are taken to prevent the exposed soil
from drying out.
      E.   Roots of a tree shall not be damaged by compacting or filling on or
around the base of the tree.
      F.   If existing trees that are scheduled to be retained as part of the
landscaping plan are severely damaged during the construction phase, they shall
be replaced in accordance with the Tree Preservation and Mitigation section of
this chapter (
10-02-10).
   (14)   Landscaping Around Signs:
      A.   The square footage of the landscaped area shall be equal to or in
excess of the square footage of one side of the sign face.
      B.   Two (2) shrubs shall be installed on each side of the sign, at a
minimum.
      C.   The remaining area shall be completely covered with a mixture of
vegetative or nonvegetative ground cover to include grass, flowers, mulch,
vines, etc.
   (15)   Landscaping In and Around Riparian, Wetland, And Wildlife Areas:
      A.   Riparian, wetland, and wildlife areas in all developments and/or
subdivisions shall be surveyed and determined. In written form, the appropriate
agencies (i.e., Idaho Fish and Game and U.S. Army Corps of Engineers) shall
confirm the results of the survey.
      B.   Stream crossings in riparian, wetland, and wildlife areas shall be
constructed with design features that permit passage underneath of both aquatic
and terrestrial species of fish and wildlife during all anticipated flow
levels. There shall be no net loss of wildlife habitat.
      C.   All identified jurisdictional wetland areas shall be restored to a
functioning condition, including planting with species appropriate to the site,
and shall be maintained in a functioning condition. There shall be no net loss
of wetland function.
      D.   A mitigation plan for any unavoidable impacts on fish and wildlife
resulting from developments and/or subdivisions shall be developed and shall be
incorporated into homeowners’ or business owners’ covenants. The following
elements, at a minimum, shall be included in the mitigation plan:
         1.   Introduction/description of the property and surrounding area.
This shall include a description of the existing natural resource values
present, wildlife commonly found in and near the project and habitat types.
Included shall be estimates of the quantity and quality of the various habitats
found on the property as well as mapping of existing vegetation (habitat).
Aquatic species and habitats should be included if streams are present. It
should also include the scope of the mitigation plan (i.e., if it covers the
entire project or just a particular phase). In the case of projects in high
value wildlife habitat, and to provide objective and measurable pre-project
wildlife values, a habitat evaluation procedure should be conducted for key
species. Include goals and objectives of the mitigation.
         2.   Assessment of potential impacts. This shall include anticipated
impacts, both direct and indirect, resulting from the development.
         3.   Proposed actions to avoid, reduce, compensate for, and mitigate
impacts. Include onsite and off-site mitigation necessary to achieve no net
loss of wildlife values.
         4.   Description of net impacts after mitigation is implemented.
Include a description of unavoidable impacts and those impacts that have been
minimized.
         5.   Timeline for implementing all mitigation actions.
         6.   Monitoring to ensure effectiveness of mitigation actions and
long-term operations and maintenance to ensure mitigation lasts in perpetuity.
There shall be actions described in the plan that ensure that mitigation
actions are permanent (e.g., easements) and continue in perpetuity (e.g.,
habitat improvement). Recourse for failed mitigation efforts should be
identified.
      E.   Approval letters, regarding mitigation plans for riparian, wetland
and wildlife areas, from all stakeholder agencies shall be obtained and
submitted to the Planning and Zoning Department prior to approval of any
construction drawings. (Ord. 3156, 7-16-2018)
   (16)   Performance Bonding: See
10-03-17 for Planning’s performance bonding requirements and standards. (Ord.
3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-09-4 COMMON OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENTS AND STANDARDS:
   (1)   Requirements for residential subdivisions, mixed-use subdivisions and/
or developments that contain residential dwellings, regardless of zoning
district, unless otherwise noted herein (see
Chapter 10, Article 14 of this code for Multi-Family Development open space
requirements and
Chapter 10, Article 8 for Downtown City Center requirements):
      A.   The percentage of gross land area to be designated as qualified
common open space shall be based upon the overall average residential lot size
as follows:
 
Overall Average Lot Size Percentage of gross land to be reserved as Qualified
(in Square Feet)         Open Space

6,000 and below          10.0
6,001 - 11,999           8.0
12,000 and over          6.0
 
      B.   Within common open space areas, one (1) tree per every 5,000 square
feet of area shall be required. At least 50% of the required trees shall be
Class II or Class III trees to supply shade for users.
      C.   Common open space areas are established for use by the subdivision’s
or development’s occupants and guests, but not for the general public living
outside the subdivision or development, unless the common open space has public
easements running through it that make it publicly dedicated, or the land has
been dedicated for public purpose.
      D.   The main/largest common open space area and proposed amenity/
amenities shall be constructed and/or installed within the first two phases of
the subject development to ensure compliance with the minimum qualified open
space requirements OR install a minimum of 50% of the required open space area
within the first two phases of development, whichever is greater in area.
      E.   Common open space will not be required for subdivisions or
developments containing fewer than eleven (11) residential dwelling units
unless they are part of a phased development or located in the Indian Creek
corridor or the Boise River corridor.
      F.   Common open space should promote the health and well-being of its
residents. Open space shall support active, and passive uses for recreation,
social gathering, and relaxation to serve the development.
   (2)   Open Space Requirements for Planned Unit Developments:
      A.   At least fifteen percent (15%) of a planned unit development’s gross
land area shall be designated as qualified common open space.
      B.   These common open space areas are established for use by the
subdivision’s or development’s occupants and guests, but not for the general
public living outside the subdivision or development, unless the common open
space has public easements running through it that make it publicly dedicated,
or the land has been dedicated for public purposes.
      C.   In addition to the minimum common open space requirements of this
article, refer to
Chapter 10, Article 13 for more specific open space and amenity requirements
for Planned Unit Developments.
   (3)   Requirements For Commercial, Industrial, and Special Purpose Zones:
      A.   No common open space shall be required unless specifically
identified in Site Design Standards article (
Chapter 10, Article 4) or when the subdivision or development is either wholly
or partially residential in use, in a residential zone, or is a planned unit
development in which case requirements as listed under this article would apply
(see
Chapter 10, Article 14 of this code for Multi-Family Development open space
requirements).
      B.   All other landscaping requirements as referenced in this article
shall apply unless stated otherwise.
   (4)   Criteria For Common Open Space:
      A.   Nonqualifying Open Space:
         1.   Street right-of-way areas, areas dedicated for future right-of-
way purposes, or islands/medians/roundabouts in the right-of-way.
         2.   Irregularly shaped, disconnected, or isolated landscape areas
that are less than 30' wide at any dimensional point.
         3.   Riparian, wetland, and wildlife areas (as determined by the
appropriate jurisdictional agency); floodway areas; or public utility,
drainage, and irrigation easements.
      B.   Qualifying Open Space: Anything other than what is listed as non-
qualifying open space as approved by the city’s landscape plan reviewer
including, but not limited to, the following items:
         1.   Open park areas of at least one thousand five hundred (1,500)
square feet in size, if integrated into the development as a priority and
incorporates pedestrian access, placemaking components, thoughtful design, or
similar concepts.
         2.   Community gardens.
         3.   Ponds or water features.
         4.   Plazas.
         5.   Additions to a public park or other public open space area.
         6.   Clubhouse, fitness facilities, enclosed bike storage, picnic
areas, swimming pool, play areas, other general recreational/amenity
facilities.
         7.   Buffers between differing land uses.
         8.   50% of required landscape street buffers along collector and
arterial streets when landscaped to minimum standards.
         9.   All pathways and associated landscaping (if constructed to
minimum City standards).
         10.   Stormwater retention/detention areas (including underground
seepage beds in open space areas), when vegetated with grass, do not include
any slopes over 3:1 ratio, and are located within a large enough common area to
include any required trees and shrubbery based upon the size of the common
area. Retention areas located under impervious surfaces may count if the
impervious surface is an amenity such as a basketball court, pickleball court,
or similar.
      C.   Location Of Open Space:
         1.   Common open spaces shall be located and designated as common lots
platted for common open space purposes when within a platted subdivision. If
the project is not a platted subdivision, the common open space must be located
within a recorded permanent landscape easement.
         2.   Location of open space shall be integrated into the development
as a priority and not for the use of remnant land after all other elements of
the development have been designed; irregular shaped, disconnected, or isolated
open spaces shall not meet this standard and will not be considered qualified
open space. Open space areas that have been given priority in the development
design have:
            (A)   Direct pedestrian access;
            (B)   Placemaking components;
            (C)   High visibility;
            (D)   Thoughtful design that preserves community culture;
            (E)   Support a range of leisure and play activities and uses; and
            (F)   Support Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED)
principles:
               (i)   Natural Surveillance: Design the environment to maximize
visibility, making it easier for people to see and be seen. This can be
achieved through features like well-placed windows, adequate lighting, and
visually accessible open spaces;
               (ii)   Environmental Design: Consider the layout, design, and
aesthetics of open spaces to create a sense of community, identity, and place;
               (iii)   Natural Access Control: Control and channel the flow of
people through a space to create a sense of ownership and territoriality. Use
elements like fences, gates, and landscaping to guide movement and deter
unauthorized access;
               (iv)   Maintenance and Management: Keep the open space area
well-maintained and clean to signal that it is cared for and monitored.
Neglected or poorly maintained areas can attract criminal activity.
         3.   Common open space shall be required to be interconnected within a
subdivision or development by means of five foot (5') wide neighborhood
pathways with a five foot (5') wide strip of landscaping on each side of the
pathway for a total of fifteen feet (15') minimum, to be located within a
common lot if part of a platted subdivision or within a recorded permanent
landscape easement if not part of a platted subdivision. The neighborhood
pathways and accompanying landscaping strips count towards the minimum required
common open space.
      D.   Minimum Required Landscaping for Open Space:
         1.   Groundcover and tree requirements shall be as specified in
section
10-02-09-3(5) above unless specifically noted otherwise in this section (
10-02-09-4).
         2.   Areas for active playground purposes shall be designed to
minimize injury to children and shall comply with all adopted and applicable
building codes.
         3.   Common open space should be suitably improved for its intended
use, except that existing natural features such as wetlands, rock outcroppings,
ponds, creeks, groves of trees and other naturally occurring features may be
left unimproved and undeveloped in their natural state unless the applicable
agency requires improvements/clean-up of the area.
      E.   Americans With Disabilities Act:
         1.   Landscape areas shall not interfere with pedestrian sidewalk
access or pose impediments to those who are disabled or infirm.
         2.   Landscape buffering and screening devices shall not be
constructed to impede or eliminate the pedestrian’s ability to access any
abutting development.
         3.   If landscaping creates a continuous perimeter barrier, sufficient
pathways shall be provided through the landscaping approximately every six
hundred sixty feet (660') unless there are physical barriers like a canal or a
cliff that prevent the construction of such access.
         4.   Any landscape application that may limit access shall be called
out so that an appropriate remedy may be found. (Ord. 3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-09-5 STREET LANDSCAPE BUFFERS:
   (1)   Applicability:
      A.   Street landscape buffers shall be required along all subdivision
and/or development boundaries that have frontage on any public right-of-way,
except for alleys.
      B.   Street landscape buffers shall, when platted as a common lot, be
owned and maintained by either a homeowners’ or business owners’ association.
In cases where a homeowners’ or business owners’ association is dissolved and
the City subsequently abates any nuisance on any common area owned and/or
maintained by said association, the cost of said abatement shall be distributed
to all property owners within the subdivision.
      C.   Street landscape buffers not platted as a common lot shall be placed
in a recorded permanent landscape easement and shall be maintained in
dedication format by a specified controller, homeowners’, or business owners’
association.
      D.   Street landscape buffers are not intended to impede or conflict with
driveway or entrance access requirements and shall follow any vision triangle
restrictions and/or requirements.
      E.   Placement of street landscape buffers shall not negate, substitute
for, or replace a property’s zoning frontage requirement as per the applicable
zoning district article of this chapter (Article
5,
6,
7,
8, or
9). The zoning frontage requirements of this chapter shall be met regardless
of, and separate from, the placement of common lots or easements.
      F.   The placement of a landscape buffer into a platted common lot that
is located between a street and a corner lot may change the status of the
corner lot to an interior lot, provided the landscape buffer is a minimum of
ten feet (10') wide and runs the entire length of the lot.
   (2)   Location:
      A.   Street landscape buffers shall be located on private property
outside of and beyond the street right of way unless the property owner has met
the following criteria and obtained an approved license agreement from the City
or other applicable agency with jurisdiction:
         1.   Future expansion of the right-of-way is not anticipated or
planned; and
         2.   The buffer width located on the private property is a minimum of
ten (10) feet outside of any public utility easement or at least fifty (50)
percent of the required buffer width, whichever is larger; and
         3.   The subject site is constrained preventing the placement of the
full buffer width without significant impact to the development; and
         4.   The unimproved right-of-way area is a minimum width to allow
healthy vegetation and does not impede any public utility, utility easement, or
public use of the right-of-way;
      B.   Street landscape buffers located outside the public-right-of-way
shall be located within a platted common lot when the project is a platted
residential subdivision of eleven (11) or more buildable lots. In all other
circumstances, street landscape buffers may be located within a recorded
permanent landscape easement, pursuant to (1)C above.
      C.   The measuring point for the street landscape buffer width shall be
measured from the property line and not the back of sidewalk or curb.
      D.   If the City Engineer approves of a sidewalk location outside of the
public right-of-way, then the required street landscape buffer width may
include the sidewalk width.
      E.   Entrances into residential subdivisions or developments:
         1.   Entrance buffers on each side of all entrances shall be required.
         2.   Entrance buffers shall be placed adjacent to the developable
lots.
         3.   Entrance buffers shall be placed in a common platted lot if a
subdivision or placed in a recorded perpetual landscape easement if not a
subdivision.
         4.   Entrance buffers shall be the length of the first developable
lot’s side property line closest to the street entrance.
         5.   Entrance buffers shall be a minimum width of fifteen feet (15').
         6.   Entrance buffers shall meet all the vision triangle requirements
and shall be landscaped so as to not impede public safety.
         7.   Entrance buffers shall be landscaped with trees, vegetative and
nonvegetative ground cover consistent with section
10-02-09-3 above.
      F.   Street landscape buffers located along arterials, state highways,
and interstate frontages of residential subdivisions and/or developments shall
include undulating berms of at least two (2) feet in height but shall not
exceed eight (8) feet in height. As an exception to fencing regulations (
10-02-07) and to subsection (9) below, solid style fences are permitted on the
top of the berm within the landscape street buffer provided the combination of
a berm and fence shall not exceed a maximum height of eight feet (8'). Fencing
shall not exceed six feet (6') in height and berms shall not exceed a 3:
1 slope.
         1.   Exception: Berms located in street landscape buffers within state
highway and interstate rights-of-way shall meet all berm requirements of the
Idaho Transportation Department.
      G.   There is no minimum or maximum berm height for subdivisions or
developments located within the commercial, industrial, special purpose
districts, and Highway Corridor district unless: the subdivision or development
includes residential uses and has frontage along an arterial, State Highway or
Interstate, or includes a use that has been deemed to require berming, in which
case subsection (2)F of this section applies.
      H.   Within the T-N and Downtown Districts, berming is prohibited unless
there is frontage on State Highways or Interstate, in which case subsection
(2)F of this section applies.
   (3)   Buffer Sizes:
Type Of Roadway Buffer Width Along Each Side of a Roadway
Type Of Roadway                       Buffer Width Along Each Side of a
                                      Roadway
Local or nonclassified streets (does
not include access easements, alleys, 10/152 feet
or driveways)1
Collectors                            20 feet
Arterials                             25 feet
State Highways, US Highways, and      35 feet
Interstates
Footnotes:
1.   Local or nonclassified streets internal to any subdivision or development
in an RS-1, RS-2, R-1, R-2, R-3 Zone or internal to any subdivision or
development that is wholly residential in use, are not required to provide the
ten foot (10') wide street landscape buffer.
2.   A fifteen (15) foot wide landscape street buffer is required adjacent to
local streets for multi-family development that is directly across the street
from existing single-family residential dwellings.
 
   (4)   Buffer Width Reduction: Buffer width reductions not to exceed 50% of
the required buffer width, may be granted at the discretion of the Director
based upon existing conditions, lot size, right-of-way requirements,
topography, and geography of the site. Buffer width reductions shall not be
granted based upon financial or economic reasons and shall not result in a
buffer less than ten (10) feet in width, except for infill parcels of less than
three (3) acres in size. In this instance, landscape buffer widths may be
reduced to less than ten (10) feet so long as there is a minimum of eight (8)
feet to accommodate any Class II or Class III trees.
   (5)   Required Landscaping And Improvements Within The Street Buffers:
      A.   Mixture of trees, shrubs, lawn, vegetative and nonvegetative ground
cover so that the entire buffer area is covered as follows (standard
requirements of
10-02-09-3 also apply):
         1.   Tree Density: A minimum density of one (1) tree per twenty-five
(25) linear feet for Class I trees; A minimum density of one (1) tree per
thirty-five (35) linear feet for Class II trees is required. Class III trees
are prohibited within landscape street buffers except as noted for buffers
along the Interstate (see subsection (12) below).
            (A)   No more than 40% of the required trees shall be of the same
tree species.
            (B)   No more than 50% of the required trees shall be Class I
trees, unless such trees are located where overhead power lines prohibit the
use of taller trees.
         2.   For residential (see Article
10-14 for multi-family residential requirements) and commercial developments,
turf grass as a groundcover shall be a minimum of 20% but shall not exceed 50%
of the buffer area.
         3.   For residential and commercial developments, shrubs, flowers, and
other vegetative groundcover besides turf grass shall constitute a minimum of
50% of required landscape areas.
         4.   In all cases, the minimum shrub density within street buffers
shall be one (1) shrub per four (4) linear feet of buffer area.
         5.   Boulders and rock slabs are prohibited in any public rights-of-
way but may be utilized within buffers outside of any right-of-way.
         6.   For the C-4 zoning district, industrial, and special purpose
districts, the minimum groundcover requirements outlined above are required
unless waterwise landscaping is proposed and all standards are met (see section
10-02-09-10 below). Waterwise landscaping may be utilized in other districts or
circumstances for required street buffers if approval is obtained through the
Alternative Methods of Compliance process (
10-03-16).
         7.   See subsection (11) below for buffer requirements adjacent to
State and U.S. Highways and subsection (12) below for buffer requirements
adjacent to the Interstate.
   (6)   Placement and Installation of Trees:
      A.   Trees and shrubs should be grouped together for visual aesthetics
but may be spaced evenly if additional screening is desired or required.
      B.   Vision triangles, signage, driveways, and above grade clearance
shall all be accounted for when placing trees and shrubs.
      C.   Trees shall not be spaced closer than eighty percent (80%) of the
average mature width of the trees.
      D.   Curbing to Protect Trees: All planting areas that border driveways,
parking lots and other vehicle use areas shall be protected by curbing, wheel
stops, or other protective devices located at a minimum of thirty (30) inches
from all tree trunks.
      E.   If any utility, irrigation or drainage easement precludes trees
required by this Section, the width of the required buffer shall be increased
to accommodate the required trees.
      F.   The planning and zoning division staff, in consultation with the
city forester, is authorized to review and approve species and spacing
variables in buffering areas to assure these factors are accommodated.
   (7)   Parking And Vehicle Display Allowed: Vehicles are prohibited from
parking within the street landscape buffer area, but vehicles may be displayed
as part of the business owner’s advertising scheme with permission from the
planning and zoning division obtained through an Administrative Determination
application and shall comply with all specific use requirements as outlined in
10-12-03-31.
   (8)   Impervious Surfaces Allowed in The Street Buffer Area:
      A.   Curb cuts, driveways, signs, fire hydrants, mailboxes, telephone
poles, light poles, flagpoles, and walkways.
      B.   Other types of impervious surfaces not listed are discouraged and
are subject to approval on a case-by-case basis.
   (9)   Fences: Neither solid style fencing nor chain-link fencing shall be
allowed within the street landscape buffer but may be placed at the interior
edge of the buffer to separate the development area from the street buffer. If
a fence exists and is in good condition, deviation from this standard may be
approved by the Director or their designee.
   (10)   Additional Amenities: Additional street landscape amenities are
encouraged (rocks and boulders, undulating berms, decorative walls, etc.) and
may be required, as determined by and at the discretion of the Director, along
key gateway corridor streets or along major entrance areas to the City or as
otherwise specified elsewhere in this chapter.
   (11)   Additional Requirements for Buffers Along State & U.S. Highways:
      A.   All parcels, in any zone, that have frontage along State/U.S.
Highways shall install a thirty-five foot (35') wide street landscape buffer
that may contain a detached sidewalk and accompanying landscaping if no
sidewalk or pathway exists but is identified in the transportation master plan
or pathways master plan.
      B.   Sidewalks within these buffers shall meet the following
requirements:
         1.   Shall be detached from any roadway unless required to be attached
by Idaho Transportation Department or the City of Caldwell Engineering
department.
         2.   Shall be on a flat surface that is ADA accessible and is not
sloped, bermed, or hilly such that ADA accessibility is hindered.
         3.   Shall be a minimum of ten (10) feet wide (unless an alternative
is approved by the Engineering department) and paved the full width meeting
surfacing and cross section standards for sidewalks, as per the city
engineering department.
      C.   The associated landscaping shall meet the following requirements:
         1.   Both sides of the sidewalk shall be landscaped unless the
sidewalk is required to be attached.
         2.   Berms and/or decorative walls shall be incorporated into the
buffer landscaping with slopes not to exceed 3:1 or wall heights above three
(3) feet, as determined by the landscape plan designer and subsequently
reviewed and approved by the city’s landscape plan reviewer.
         3.   Vegetative and nonvegetative ground cover shall comply with
10-02-09-3 and shall be a combination of the following: trees, native grass
mix, emergent mix, turf, shrubs, rocks, Perma bark, bark or similar, and/or
flowers, and shall include the following additional landscape elements:
            (A)   Tree density per subsection (5) above;
            (B)   One boulder for every seventy-five (75) linear feet of
frontage;
            (C)   A minimum shrub density of one (1) shrub for every four (4)
linear feet of frontage;
            (D)   Undulating berms and/or decorative walls three (3) feet or
less in height for a minimum of 30% of the linear frontage;
            (E)   Groupings of vegetative ground cover, trees, and boulders may
be determined by the landscape designer so long as the entire landscaped area
is covered with the items as listed above.
         4.   Streetlights along State/U.S. Highways shall comply with all
Idaho Transportation Department (ITD) requirements. If ITD does not have a
requirement at the time of buffer construction, streetlights shall be installed
per the Caldwell Engineering supplemental specifications.
         5.   If located outside of public right-of-way, the sidewalk/pathway
shall be dedicated as a public access easement, allowing for general public use
and access for any maintenance the City may opt to perform, but shall be owned,
operated, and maintained in accordance with
10-02-09-11(1) A.
   (12)   Additional Requirements for Buffers Along the Interstate:
      A.   All parcels, in any zone, that have frontage along the Interstate
shall install a thirty-five foot (35') wide landscape buffer, outside of ITD
right-of-way, upon development.
      B.   The landscape buffer shall contain the following items:
         1.   A mixture of evergreen and deciduous trees so that at least fifty
percent (50%) of the proposed trees are evergreen; Class I deciduous trees do
not count towards the minimum tree count but may be utilized above and beyond
the minimum amount.
         2.   If part of a non-residential development, tree density shall be
one (1) tree per thirty-five (35) linear feet of frontage.
         3.   If part of a residential development, tree density shall be such
that trees touch within five (5) years of planting to ensure adequate visual
and acoustic screening. The submitted landscape plan shall depict compliance
with this standard.
         4.   Vegetative groundcover shall comply with
10-02-09-3 but also include boulder rock groupings (minimum two boulders) for
every one-hundred (100) feet of linear frontage.
         5.   Berming may be required in instances where the interstate is
significantly higher than the subject property to bring the visual and acoustic
benefits of the landscape buffer further above grade. If required, the berm
shall not exceed 3:1 slope. (Ord. 3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-09-6 BUFFERS BETWEEN DIFFERENT LAND USES:
   (1)   Purpose: The requirements of this section are intended to mitigate
potential and anticipated incompatibilities between adjoining but differing
land uses to ensure uses are properly protected and provide for an appropriate
buffer to conduct permitted uses without causing or being subject to adverse
impacts.
   (2)   Applicability: Landscape use buffers may be required for new
development, a change of use, or the expansion/intensification of an existing
use on any parcel sharing a contiguous lot line with a differing zoning
district and/or land use. Differing land uses located on the same parcel may
require a landscape use buffer based upon the type of uses proposed and at the
discretion of the Director. See Article
10-14 for all Multi-Family Residential buffer requirements when adjacent to
other residential uses.
   (3)   Required Buffer Materials:
      A.   Mixture of evergreen and deciduous trees that touch within five (5)
years of planting and where a minimum of 40% of the required trees are
evergreen so that screening and buffering occurs throughout the calendar year.
Tree canopies that will not touch within five (5) years must be supplemented
with additional materials such as tall columnar evergreen shrubs, or other
qualifying screening materials. The submitted landscape plan shall depict
compliance with this requirement.
      B.   Mixture of shrubs, lawn, vegetative, and nonvegetative ground cover
so that the entire buffer width area is covered as follows:
         1.   A minimum of 50% of the required buffer area shall be covered in
shrubs, flowers, and other vegetative groundcover besides turf grass that
includes a ratio of one (1) shrub per three (3) linear feet of buffer area.
         2.   Waterwise landscaping (
10-02-09-10) may be used for industrial districts/uses at the discretion of the
Director when the property does not abut a residential use of any type.
      C.   In addition to landscaping, a solid wall and/or fence may be
required where existing or proposed land uses cannot be adequately screened
with plant materials alone. Chainlink fencing with or without slats does not
qualify as screening material except in the M-2, and I-P zoning districts when
adjacent to a nonresidential use and slats are included in the chainlink fence.
Chainlink fencing may be allowed in the A-D zone consistent with FAA
regulations.
      D.   The installation of landscape and screen material shall not prohibit
or impair a pedestrian’s access to an abutting development where existing
pedestrian facilities exist or are planned.
   (4)   Minimum Buffer Widths Between Land Uses:
      A.   Residential Districts/Uses:
         1.   Regardless of zoning district, residential uses are not required
to provide a landscape use buffer unless specified elsewhere in Chapter 10 of
Caldwell City Code. Except, a minimum fifteen-foot (15') buffer is required to
be located in the residential development if an adjacent nonresidential
development/use (excluding non-annexed agricultural properties) was established
prior to these regulations and does not have a land use buffer. If the adjacent
nonresidential use includes any perimeter landscaping, only the remaining width
is required to satisfy this buffer requirement. Landscaping shall include
vegetative and nonvegetative groundcover consistent with the landscaping
requirements outlined in subsection (3) above.
         2.   Multi-family development buffer requirements are set forth in
10-14.
      B.   Commercial Uses:
         1.   A minimum twenty-foot (20') buffer is required adjacent to any
residential use;
         2.   No use buffer is required adjacent to other commercial uses.
      C.   Industrial Uses:
         1.   A minimum thirty-foot (30') buffer is required adjacent to any
residential use;
         2.   A minimum twenty-foot (20') buffer is required adjacent to any
nonindustrial use (a nonresidential use that is not an industrial use);
         3.   No use buffer is required adjacent to other industrial uses.
      D.   Special Purpose Districts (A-D, C-D, H-D, P-D):
         1.   A minimum ten-foot (10') buffer is required for a nonresidential/
institutional use adjacent to any residential use;
         2.   No buffer is required between residential uses nor between
institutional or nonresidential uses.
      E.   Projects located in Urban Core Districts (T-N, D-CC, and D-CB):
         1.   No buffer is required within the D-CC, and D-CB.
         2.   Buffer widths in the T-N district shall be based upon the
proposed use. Therefore, if a commercial use is proposed, the buffer
requirements of subsection (4)B shall apply, if an industrial use is proposed,
the buffer requirements of subsection (4)C shall apply, etc.;
         3.   Residential uses in the T-N districts are not required to provide
a land use buffer. However, within a mixed-use project, the Applicant may split
a required buffer across an area between residential and nonresidential land
uses so long as all other required buffer widths are also accommodated for.
   (5)   Notes Regarding Buffer Widths:
      A.   If a street separates differing land uses, the public street and any
required street buffers shall act as the required land use buffer.
      B.   If the adjacent landowner has provided a portion of the required
buffer width and landscaping requirements, the Applicant only needs to provide
the remaining width and requirements (if any) to satisfy the buffer
requirement.
      C.   If an irrigation/drainage easement or irrigation/drainage right of
way exists between the differing uses, the controller only needs to provide the
remaining width and landscaping requirements (if any) to satisfy this buffer
requirement. All required landscape buffer improvements (i.e. required trees
and shrubs) would need to be placed outside of any irrigation/drainage easement
or right-of-way.
      D.   The buffer area shall be placed in a common lot if the project is
within a platted subdivision and within any residential zone, or shall be
located within a recorded, permanent landscaping easement if not platted or if
located within any other zone besides a residential zone. The buffer area shall
be operated and maintained by the controller, a homeowners’ association, or
business owners’ association in accordance with
10-02-09-11(1) A.
      E.   Buffer width reductions may be granted at the discretion of the
Director based upon existing conditions, lot size, right of way requirements,
topography, and geography of the site. Buffer width reductions shall not be
granted based upon financial or economic reasons and shall not be reduced to a
width that impedes healthy tree growth. (Ord. 3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-09-7 PATHWAY LANDSCAPING STANDARDS:
   (1)   General Purpose:
      A.   Provide safe transportation routes for pedestrians and cyclists.
      B.   Increase recreational opportunities within the community and connect
these opportunities to the pathway and bike route system.
      C.   Increase public access to the Boise River, Lake Lowell, and Indian
Creek corridors, public facilities, and neighboring cities.
      D.   Help create a pleasant urban environment.
      E.   Provide consistent standards for pathway development.
   (2)   Applicability:
      A.   Pathway landscaping standards contained in this section shall apply
to all pathways (Neighborhood, Community, and Regional).
      B.   Regional Pathways and Community Pathways shall be required as
depicted in the applicable master plan and where the Planning and Zoning
department determines connectivity with existing, proposed, or planned pathway
segments is needed through new subdivisions and/or developments, regardless of
the zoning district.
      C.   All pathway landscaping specified within this section shall be owned
and maintained by either a homeowner’s or business owners’ association (unless
dedicated to the City in accord with subsection (5)E below). In cases where a
homeowners’ or business owners’ association is dissolved and the City
subsequently abates any nuisance on any common area owned and/or maintained by
said association, the cost of said abatement shall be distributed to all
property owners within the subdivision.
   (3)   Neighborhood Pathway Requirements:
      A.   Five feet (5') wide.
      B.   Required width paved with either asphalt or concrete or porous.
      C.   ADA accessible.
      D.   Shall be placed in the subdivision or development to provide
pedestrian connectivity between common open space areas within the subdivision
or development.
      E.   All other pathways in a subdivision or development, besides the
regional or community pathways, shall be classified as neighborhood pathways.
      F.   A minimum five foot (5') wide landscape buffer shall be provided
along both sides of any neighborhood pathway located within a subdivision or
development. The pathway, then, shall be a total width of fifteen feet (15')
consisting of five feet (5') of paved surface and five feet (5') of landscaping
on either side of the paved surface, unless otherwise approved through an
Alternative Methods of Compliance application (
10-03-16).
      G.   Fencing is not required for neighborhood pathways.
      H.   Required plants for the neighborhood pathway landscape buffer:
         1.   A combination of trees, shrubs, lawn or other vegetative or
nonvegetative groundcover so that the entire pathway landscape buffer area on
both sides of the paved surface is completely covered.
         2.   Minimum of 25 shrubs for every one hundred (100) linear feet of
pathway.
         3.   No evergreen or Class 3 trees (large trees) shall be planted
within the pathway landscape buffer unless part of a larger common open space
area.
         4.   All neighborhood pathways and associated landscape buffers shall
be owned, operated, and maintained by a homeowners’ or business owners’
association or similar.
   (4)   Community Pathway Requirements:
      A.   Eight feet (8') wide.
      B.   Required width paved with either asphalt or concrete.
      C.   ADA accessible.
      D.   A community pathway is required in all residential subdivisions/
developments, regardless of the zoning district, and in any subdivision/
development that contains any residential dwellings. The pathway shall connect
with existing, proposed, planned or possible future pathways in adjoining
developments, regardless of the zoning district. The community pathway
requirement may be waived if there is no possibility of adjacent connectivity
in the form of an existing, proposed, planned or possible future pathway or
sidewalk. A community pathway is not required in commercial or industrial
subdivisions and/or developments unless there is clear potential for connection
to an existing or future pathway segment.
      E.   A minimum five foot (5') wide landscape buffer shall be provided
along both sides of any community pathway. The pathway, then, shall be a total
width of eighteen feet (18') consisting of eight feet (8') of paved surface and
five feet (5') of landscaping on either side of the paved surface, unless
otherwise approved through an Alternative Methods of Compliance application (
10-03-16).
      F.   Fencing is not required for community pathways.
      G.   Requirements for the community pathway landscape buffer:
         1.   A combination of trees, shrubs, lawn or other vegetative or
nonvegetative groundcover so that the entire pathway landscape buffer area on
both sides of the paved surface is completely covered.
         2.   Minimum of fifteen (15) shrubs for each one hundred (100) linear
feet of pathway.
         3.   Minimum of one Class 1 or Class 2 tree for every forty (40)
linear feet.
         4.   No evergreen or class 3 trees (large trees) shall be planted
within the pathway landscape buffer.
         5.   All trees and shrubs within the pathway landscape buffer shall be
of low or moderate water usage.
      H.   Unless otherwise approved by the City, all community pathways shall
have a public access easements located over the full width of the pathway and
pathway landscaping noted herein (via plat note or separate easement instrument
number), allowing for general public use of the pathways. All community
pathways and pathway landscape buffers shall be owned, operated, and maintained
by a homeowners’ or business owners’ association or similar in accordance with
10-02-09-11(1) A.
   (5)   Regional Pathway Requirements:
      A.   Regional Pathway Standards:
         1.   ADA: The construction of public pathways shall comply with the
standards of the Americans with disabilities act of 1990 and any adopted
amendments thereto.
         2.   Pathway Width: Regional pathways shall be a minimum width of ten
(10) feet.
      3.   Surface: Regional pathways shall be constructed using materials as
described below:
            (A)   Asphalt surfaces: Shall have a minimum depth of two inches
(2") of bituminous concrete surface course on top of six inches (6") of
aggregate base course set on top of geotextile fabric.
            (B)   Concrete surfaces: Shall have a minimum depth of four inches
(4") of concrete on top of four inches (4") of aggregate base course.
         4.   Connectivity: All newly established developments, including, but
not limited to, subdivisions, new construction, and changes in use, that are
adjacent to an existing or planned regional pathway segment, shall provide at
least one connection to the regional pathway for every six hundred (600) linear
feet of pathway frontage. The exact location shall be approved by the Director
or assigned staff, with consultation from other City departments. Regional
pathways shall connect to major and minor pathways where applicable.
         5.   Signage: Wayfinding and directional signage shall be installed
when a regional pathway is built. The proposed signage shall be approved by
Planning and Zoning.
         6.   Fencing: Regional pathways may have fencing installed along one
or both sides of the pathway. If proposed, fencing shall adhere to the
following standards:
            (A)   Shall be located as near as possible to the interior far edge
of the required landscape buffers.
            (B)   Pathway fencing is prohibited adjacent to a public park
unless Police or Fire require it for life/safety reasons. If fencing is
proposed adjacent to a private park/common open space area, breaks in the fence
shall be required for pedestrian access.
            (C)   Fence Height: Fencing may be open or semi-open vision up to
six feet (6') in height. Semi-open vision fencing includes up to four (4) feet
of solid fencing with the remaining fencing being open vision, not to exceed a
total of six (6) feet in height. Solid fencing may be used if it does not
exceed four feet (4') in height.
      B.   Regional Pathway Landscaping Standards:
         1.   Both sides of the pathway shall be landscaped and irrigated.
         2.   Landscaping width shall be a minimum ten feet (10') on each side
of the pathway for a total of twenty feet (20') of landscaped area. However,
because the pathway may meander, the landscape designer may choose to meander
the ten feet (10') of landscaping on each side down to a minimum of five feet
(5') on one side provided that the overall minimum width of twenty feet (20')
total of landscaping is provided at all points along the pathway.
         3.   Nonvegetative ground cover is prohibited.
         4.   Vegetative ground cover shall be used and shall be a combination
of all of the following: native grass mix, emergent mix, and/or turf; shrubs;
and flowers. Shrub/flowers shall be planted at a ratio of 15 shrubs per 100
linear feet of pathway.
         5.   Trees shall be chosen from the Treasure Valley Tree Selection
Guide, or as approved by the Landscape Plan Reviewer, and shall be a minimum
combined ratio of three (3) Class 2 trees and one Class 3 tree.
         6.   There shall be a minimum of one tree for every fifty (50) linear
feet of pathway area.
         7.   There shall be one trash receptacle and park bench provided for
every six hundred (600) linear feet of pathway area, and one streetlight for
every one hundred fifty (150) linear feet of pathway area. Said trash
receptacles and park benches shall be selected from those allowed under
subsection 10-08 of this chapter. Said streetlights shall meet all the
requirements listed under subsection
10-08 of this chapter.
         8.   Groupings may be determined by the landscape designer so long as
the entire pathway landscaped area is covered with the required items as listed
above.
         9.   In the event irrigation water is not available to the site,
alternative landscaping methods may be approved by the Planning and Zoning
Department and the Parks and Recreation Superintendent.
         10.   All landscaping maintenance shall adhere to the requirements of
10-02-09-11 of this article.
         11.   All regional pathways and landscape buffers shall be outside of
any type of easements for irrigation districts, Boise Project Board Of Control,
or Bureau of Reclamation unless written permission from said entity has been
specifically granted for said pathway or pathway landscaping.
      C.   Public Pathway Acceptance: The City of Caldwell will assume
maintenance and control of the public pathway only upon dedication and the
City’s acceptance for maintenance, similar to its responsibilities for other
publicly maintained highways. The acceptance of a dedication and the acceptance
of a public pathway for maintenance should be established by City Council order
and is recommended when:
         1.   The applicant requests the city assume responsibility.
         2.   The public pathway lies within the easement or right-of-way
granted to the city for the construction of the pathway.
         3.   The public pathway has been constructed to the City’s standards
and accepted by the Parks and Recreation Director.
      D.   Dedication And Construction of Public Pathways As A Condition Of
Development Approval: The following standards and criteria shall apply in all
zoning districts when a public pathway is required on property per any City
master plan:
         1.   Dedication:
            (A)   On any land use application involving the subdivision of
land, right of way for public pathways shall be designated on the final plat.
The right-of-way shall be listed as a “public pathway” on the final plat.
            (B)   All other land use applications not involving the subdivision
of land, but where dedication of a public pathway is required, shall designate
an easement to the city prohibiting development from taking place within the
easement and providing for public pathway construction, maintenance, and use.
            (C)   Inclusion of a regional pathway within a development
satisfies the requirement for a major pathway; construction of both types of
pathways is not required.
         2.   Construction of Pathway:
            (A)   The construction of a regional pathway is required in any
instance where a land use application for a subdivision plat, planned unit
development, short plat, special use permit, or building permit is taking
place. In instances where construction of a regional pathway is required, the
construction may be delayed until after final plat or certificate of occupancy
approval subject to the applicant filing security of performance in accordance
with section
11-04-07 of this code.
            (B)   The regional pathway may be allowed the flexibility to veer
off the route proposed in the applicable master plan, if approved by the City.
   (6)   Indian Creek Pathway and Boise River Pathway Landscaping Requirements:
      A.   All parcels, in any zoning district, that are in the “Indian Creek
corridor” and “Boise River Corridor”, as defined in section
10-01-10 of this article shall install a pathway and accompanying pathway
landscaping upon development. If permitted by the Director, Alternative Methods
of Compliance may be utilized to reduce some of the requirements of this
subsection to account for existing conditions, the location of the corridor in
relation to relative improvements and public amenities, and other similar
instances. The City anticipates this pathway being located on both sides of the
Indian Creek Corridor.
         The pathway shall meet the following requirements:
         1.   Shall be meandering.
         2.   Shall be ten feet (10') wide.
         3.   Shall be concrete paved in twenty foot (20') long sections.
         4.   Shall have a row of red brick placed at the end of each concrete
section; said row of red brick shall be sixteen inches (16") wide from edge of
brick to edge of brick.
         5.   Shall be located within one hundred fifty feet (150') of the top
of bank.
      B.   The pathway landscaping shall meet the following requirements:
         1.   Both sides of the pathway shall be landscaped.
         2.   Landscaping width shall be a minimum fifteen feet (15') on each
side of the pathway for a total of thirty feet (30') of landscaped area.
However, because the pathway is meandering the landscape designer may choose to
meander the fifteen feet (15') of landscaping on each side down to a minimum of
five feet (5') on one side provided that the overall minimum width of thirty
feet (30') total of landscaping is provided at all points along the pathway.
         3.   Nonvegetative groundcovers other than mulch (or similar) is
prohibited, for the health of trees and shrubs.
         4.   Vegetative ground cover shall be used and shall be a combination
of all of the following: native grass mix, emergent mix, and/or turf; shrubs;
and flowers.
         5.   Trees shall be chosen from the list of Class 1 or Class 2 trees
in the Treasure Valley Tree Selection Guide, or as approved by the landscape
plan reviewer, and shall be a minimum combined ratio of two (2) Class 1 trees
and one Class 2 tree.
         6.   One boulder for every forty (40) linear feet of pathway area may
be incorporated into the landscaping.
         7.   There shall be a minimum of one tree for every forty (40) linear
feet of pathway area.
         8.   There shall be one trash receptacle provided for every two
hundred (200) linear feet and one streetlight and park bench for every one
hundred (100) linear feet of pathway area. Said trash receptacles and park
benches shall be selected from those allowed under subsection
10-08 of this chapter. Said streetlights shall meet all the requirements listed
under subsection 10-08 of this chapter.
         9.   Groupings of trees and vegetative groundcovers may be determined
by the landscape designer so long as the entire pathway landscaped area is
covered with the required items as listed above.
         10.   The pathway and pathway landscaping shall have a public access
easement located over the full width of the pathway and pathway landscaping
noted herein (via plat note or separate easement instrument number), allowing
for general public use, and shall be owned by a homeowners’ or business owners’
association or similar, and may be maintained by the City. (Ord. 3662, 4-21-
2025)
10-02-09-8 PARKING LOT AND BUILDING FAÇADE LANDSCAPING:
   (1)   Required: Landscaping shall be required for all surface parking lots
containing 12 or more spaces, including vehicle sales lots, as described in
this section. For those lots containing fewer than twelve (12) spaces, the
number/size of planter islands shall be determined at the discretion of the
Director.
   (2)    Interior Parking Lot Landscaping Requirements:
      A.   Landscaping Locations and Planter Size:
         1.   Linear grouping of parking spaces shall not exceed twelve (12) in
a row, without the installation of an interior landscape planter island.
         2.   Terminal planter islands shall be provided at the end of rows of
parking to protect parked vehicles and confine moving traffic to aisles and
driveways.
         3.   Planter islands shall be a minimum of eight (8) feet in width for
Class I trees and ten (10) feet in width for Class II and Class III trees and
shall be at least equal to the length of the adjacent parking spaces.
Dimensions are measured inside of curbs.
      B.   Internal Parking Lot Planting Standards:
         1.   Each interior planter island that serves a single row of parking
spaces shall have at least one (1) tree and interior planter island that serves
a double row of parking spaces shall have two (2) trees.
         2.   All planter islands shall also be covered with low shrubs or a
combination of low shrubs (less than three feet in height at maturity),
flowers, native grasses, or other vegetative groundcovers. Turf grass shall be
prohibited in parking lot planter islands if the planter island is less than
six (6) feet in width. If utilized in planter islands wider than six (6) feet
in width, turf grass shall cover no more than 50% of the parking lot planter
area. Evergreens are prohibited in planter islands.
         3.   Deciduous shade trees shall be pruned to a minimum height of
eight feet above the adjacent parking areas. Evergreen trees are prohibited in
interior planters.
      C.   Lighting: Light poles and fixtures shall be located outside of
landscape planter islands, landscape buffers or swales that contain required
trees.
      D.   Piped irrigation shall be provided to landscape planter islands,
unless approved through the Alternative Methods of Compliance process when no
irrigation is available.
      E.   Trees located within the parking lot planter island shall be pruned
to a minimum height of eight (8) feet above the parking areas.
      F.   All planter islands/beds utilized for parking shall be installed
with minimum 6" curbing to protect the planting and adjacent driving surface
and/or pedestrian ways from groundcover tracking.
      G.   Up to fifty (50) percent of the required amount of interior planter
islands landscaping may be reallocated to the entranceways or perimeter of the
general parking lot area if the placement of the islands seriously encumbers
the parking lot and traffic circulation functions, or in cases involving small
or oddly configured land parcels.
      H.   In the C-4, A-D, Industrial, and special purpose zoning districts,
waterwise landscaping may be utilized. See section
10-02-09-10 for those requirements.
   (3)   Perimeter Parking Lot Landscaping Requirements:
      A.   All off-street parking lots/parking areas, drive aisles, and other
vehicular use areas shall install a perimeter landscape buffer along the
property line and/or project boundary.
      B.   Perimeter Parking Lot Planting Standards:
         1.   The width of the perimeter buffer shall be a minimum of five (5)
feet in width to accommodate the healthy growth of the required trees.
         2.   Buffer shall contain a minimum of one (1) tree per 40 linear feet
of perimeter buffer.
         3.   Buffer shall contain a minimum of one (1) shrub per five (5)
linear feet of perimeter buffer.
         4.   Buffer groundcover shall not exceed 20% turf grass coverage due
to prevalence of over-watering non-permeable surfaces adjacent to landscaped
areas less than eight (8) feet in width.
         5.   Groundcover in the perimeter buffer shall consist of decorative
rock, permabark, rock mulch, or additional shrubs/flowers above code
requirements so that the entire buffer area is covered.
   (4)   Building Façade Landscape Requirements:
      A.   All street-facing building elevations, except for those in the
downtown zoning districts, shall have landscaping around the perimeter of the
façade, except those portions of the buildings that provide access for
pedestrians to the building. Landscaping shall comply with the following
standards:
         1.   The landscaped area shall be at least three (3) feet wide and
shall not impede the passage of pedestrians on the adjacent sidewalk.
         2.   There shall be at least one three (3) gallon shrub for every
three (3) feet of linear foundation.
         3.   Additional ground cover plants shall fully cover the remainder of
the landscaped area. (Ord. 3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-09-9 SCREENING:
   (1)   Purpose: To establish requirements to conserve, protect, and promote
healthy, attractive, and safe environments and minimize adverse impacts of less
desirable uses and functions of development.
   (2)   Applicability: This section shall apply to the installation of all new
service equipment, waste storage, utility vaults, ancillary outdoor storage,
and similar activities when visible from a residential use, public street,
pathway, parking area, or other public space.
   (3)   Standards:
      A.   All on-site service areas, outdoor storage areas, waste storage,
disposal facilities, and transformer and utility vaults shall be located in an
area not visible from public roadways and public spaces or shall be fully
screened from view via solid fencing or landscaping, or a combination thereof,
to the height of the equipment to be screened, unless otherwise noted in the
development standards for the district, within the specific use provisions, or
in an overlay district.
      B.   Roof-mounted mechanical equipment shall be screened from view so as
not to be visible from the far side of any adjacent public right-of-way with
the use of parapet walls or other enclosure materials consistent with the
building’s materials and colors.
      C.   Large auxiliary equipment including, but not limited to, generators
shall be placed away from any adjacent property lines to mitigate noise,
appearance, and odors for neighboring properties. Such distance shall be
approved by the Director, at his/her discretion, to ensure compliance with
mitigation of the impacts. If required by the Director, these types of
equipment may also be required to be screened with solid fencing and/or
landscaping or the combination thereof.
      D.   Chainlink fencing with slats is prohibited as a screening material
in any zoning district, except chainlink fencing with slats may be permitted as
a screening material in the Industrial zoning districts or between industrial
uses at the approval of the Director and in accordance with other provisions of
this chapter.
      E.   Solid, sight obscuring fencing shall be of similar style, material,
and color as any principal building located on the parcel, as determined by the
Director. (Ord. 3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-09-10 WATERWISE LANDSCAPING STANDARDS:
   (1)   Purpose: To establish standards to conserve, protect, and promote
water consciousness for specific landscape areas in the City of Caldwell and
help reduce the amount of area that requires heavy water usage.
   (2)   Applicability: This section shall apply only in those areas of the
City code that specifically refer to this section. Additional applicability may
be determined by the Director at the time of application submittal and at the
request of the Applicant on a case-by-case basis.
   (3)   Standards:
      A.   The minimum tree requirements of each section shall be maintained
unless an alternative is approved through the Alternative Methods of Compliance
application (
10-03-16).
      B.   Boulders and/or rock slabs (located outside of any right-of-way)
shall be placed at a ratio of one per thirty-five (35) linear feet for street
buffers.
      C.   Three types of groundcovers shall be utilized for buffer areas
(street buffer or land use buffer): two types of decorative rock with a native
plant material or a combination of rock, native grasses, and native flowers
that require minimal to no irrigation.
      D.   At least one (1) boulder shall be placed in each parking lot planter
island.
      E.   A minimum of two (2) types of decorative rock shall be utilized in
parking lot planter islands and perimeter landscape beds. Native grasses that
do not require watering are encouraged to be utilized within the perimeter
landscaping.
      F.   Additional waterwise groundcover options may be utilized if the
Applicant provides evidence that the groundcover is equal to or greater than
the requirements of this section including but not limited to, decorative
walls/architectural screens, public amenities, pedestrian scale amenities, dry
creeks, etc. (Ord. 3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-09-11 LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE:
   (1)   Responsibility: The controller, a homeowners’ or business owners’
association is responsible for maintaining all landscaping and screening
devices within a subdivision and/or development and/or the subject property. In
cases where a homeowners’ or business owners’ association is dissolved and the
City subsequently abates any nuisance on any common area owned and/or
maintained by said association, the cost of said abatement shall be distributed
to all property owners within the subdivision.
      A.   Rights-of-way: All right-of-way areas not occupied by streets,
curbs, gutters, sidewalk, or pedestrian amenities shall be landscaped with
grass/sod and shall exclude trees unless approved by the City; decorative rock
may be used but shall not exceed 50% of the right-of-way area. This area shall
be maintained by the property owner adjacent to said rights of way areas or as
described directly above. All rights of way areas shall be maintained in a weed
and dust free manner.
      (2)   Maintenance: All landscaping and screening devices shall be
maintained in an attractive, safe and healthy manner. Trees and/or shrubs
located on controller’s private property, within right of way or right of way
area adjacent to controller’s private property and/or having any portion of the
trees and/or shrubs on controller’s private property growing onto, within, over
or under any right of way or right of way area adjacent to the controller’s
private property shall be maintained as follows: trees and/or shrubs shall not
interfere with or impede any irrigation, drainage, or stormwater system,
whether private or public, and shall be removed immediately to prevent any such
interference or impediment; trees and/or shrubs presenting a safety hazard to
the public shall be removed immediately; trees and/or shrubs shall be trimmed
back and up such that no portion of trees and/or shrubs shall be within a ten
foot (10') vertical height of any sidewalk and/or unimproved right of way, and
a fourteen foot (14') vertical height of any street or alley; all vegetation
and foliage shall be trimmed such that no portion of any vegetation or foliage
grows over or onto any public sidewalk. Property with landscape areas littered
with weeds or trash, where plant material (including, but not limited to,
grass, trees, and/or shrubs) is dying or dead, where ponds or water features
are growing moss or algae, and/or where trees and/or shrubs are not being
maintained as noted above shall be considered in violation of this article and
subject to city planning and zoning code enforcement and any other applicable
penalties under this code.
   (3)   Condition Kept: All properties, and the right of way or right of way
area adjacent to properties, shall be kept in a hazard free, neat, orderly, and
clean condition. Required and voluntary landscaping and landscaping areas shall
be maintained in a healthy manner. Dead or dying landscape (including, but not
limited to, grass, trees, and/or shrubs), weeds, trash, rubbish, and litter
shall be removed immediately from all required and voluntary landscaping and
landscaping areas, as well as all right of way and right of way areas adjacent
to properties. Any item on property, as well as right of way and right of way
areas adjacent to property, that presents a safety hazard, vision obstruction
to vehicular or pedestrian traffic, and/or impediment to any private or public
irrigation, drainage or stormwater system shall be removed immediately.
   (4)   Tree Grates: Tree grates located within a public right of way must be
widened as necessary to accommodate the growing tree trunk and prevent tree
girdling.
   (5)   Damaged Plant Materials: Dead plant materials or plant materials
exhibiting evidence of insect pests, disease or damage shall immediately be
treated or replaced.
   (6)   Removal Of Weeds: Weeds shall be mowed, removed or otherwise safely
mitigated on a minimum monthly basis. At a minimum, the monthly mitigation
shall take place each month from April through October. The mitigation shall
take place more frequently if necessary to prevent a nuisance condition.
   (7)   City Inspections: Periodic city inspections of all landscape plans
approved after the adoption of this article may take place to ensure
compliance.
   (8)   Enforcement: Any violation of this article may result in a code
enforcement action as outlined in section
10-03-10 of this chapter. Further the City of Caldwell has the right to declare
a property a nuisance and assume or contract maintenance work required to
achieve compliance with this article. In such instances the nuisance abatement
process shall be followed as outlined in
chapter 7, article 11 of this code and associated expenses shall be levied and
assessed in accordance with the said nuisance abatement process.
   (9)   Fire Safety Landscape Standards:
      A.   Dead and dying landscaping shall be removed. The removal process
shall adhere to all requirements of this code.
      B.   Permission for any burning of dry vegetation or other refuse must be
obtained from the Caldwell Fire Department.
      C.   Mature trees on unpaved lots shall be limbed upward to a height of
approximately six feet (6') above ground level to protect the tree in the event
of a grass fire.
      D.   Areas that have slopes nine percent (9%) or greater shall have a
fire defensive zone between the structures and vegetative areas. The fire
defensive zone area shall be determined by the Caldwell Fire Department.
      E.   Addresses on buildings and street name signs shall not be blocked or
occluded by landscape material.
      F.   Landscape material shall neither visually obscure nor physically
impede access to fire appliances including hydrants, fire sprinkler
connections, post indicator valves (for sprinkler shutoffs), etc.
      G.   Tree branches or limbs shall be trimmed to a height of fourteen feet
(14') above the roadways to lessen damage to fire apparatus and to be
consistent with article 2 of this chapter; this height limit shall also apply
to fire lanes located on private property.
      H.   Large bushes and/or trees shall not be planted directly outside of
windows thereby impeding a person’s ability to use them for fire escape
purposes or reduce the Caldwell fire department’s ability to rely upon them for
fire or rescue purposes.
      I.   Low profile landscaping shall be applied within a three-foot (3')
radius of all fire hydrants in accordance with uniform fire code. Acceptable
landscape includes mowed grass and mulch products. Landscape shall be placed in
proximity to fire hydrants to create an adequate fire viewshed. (Ord. 3662, 4-
21-2025)
10-02-09-12 VISION TRIANGLES:
   (1)   Purpose Of The Vision Triangle: To prevent sight obstructions that
include any hedge, tree, shrubbery, fence, signage or wall that interfere with
driver vision.
   (2)   Applicability Of Vision Triangle Standards:
      A.   All vision triangles located at controlled (signalized) or
uncontrolled roadway intersections, shared/common driveways, alleyways, and
nonresidential driveway connections to roadways.
      B.   Idaho transportation department’s (ITD) vision triangle standards
shall apply to all state highways located within the city’s jurisdiction.
   (3)   Parameters Of Vision Triangle:
      A.   Vision triangles shall be measured from the projected intersection
of the lip of gutter a distance of forty feet (40') along each roadway edge and
connecting the two (2) points with a straight line. This measuring approach
defines the boundaries of a vision triangle at the intersection of two (2)
roads.
      B.   As a roadway is enlarged or constructed, the vision triangle will
accommodate the new boundaries.
      C.   The creation and maintenance of a vision triangle is governed by
state statute (IC 49-221).
   (4)   Intersection Of Roadways with Driveways And Alleyways:
      A.   The boundaries of a vision triangle at the intersection of a road
with a common and/or nonresidential driveway or alleyway are defined by
measuring from the intersection of the roadway and the edge of the driveway or
alleyway twenty feet (20') along the roadway and ten feet (10') along the
driveway or alleyway connecting the two (2) points with a straight line.
      B.   The vision triangle requirements of this section do not apply to
private driveways onto local streets. However, any tree(s) planted along any
property line abutting or adjoining a street shall be setback at least ten (10)
feet from the back of sidewalk, or edge of pavement where no sidewalk exists,
to preserve safe sight lines. Private driveways for residential lots and their
setback to public roadway intersections (i.e. driveways on corner lots) shall
also comply with all City of Caldwell Engineering Department requirements.
   (5)   Intersection Of Road and Railroad:
      A.   The vision triangle at the intersection of railroads and street
crossings shall be forty feet (40') along the railroad property line and forty
feet (40') along the roadway edge and connecting the two (2) points with a
straight line.
   (6)   Items Prohibited or Limited Within The Vision Triangle:
      A.   The planting of trees in the vision triangle is prohibited. (Ord.
2661, 1-7-2008)
      B.   All trees existing in the right of way shall be pruned to a minimum
height of ten feet (10') above the ground or sidewalk surface and fourteen
seventeen feet (147') above the adjacent roadway surface or be removed. (Ord.
3065, 9-19-2016)
      C.   Maximum height of any berm, vegetative ground cover, fencing, walls,
signs (except publicly placed traffic directing devices), or any other
structure as herein defined shall be no more than three feet (3') above
finished grade at maturity.
      D.   No fences or walls may be installed on a berm within a vision
triangle. (Ord. 3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-09-13 IRRIGATION:
   (1)   Automatic Pressurized Irrigation System: All wet landscaped areas
shall be equipped with a pressurized irrigation pump station and an automatic
pressurized irrigation system built to Caldwell municipal irrigation district
(CMID) standards utilizing the existing surface or well irrigation water right
(if one exists) except as follows:
      A.   Private ownership, operation, and maintenance of an irrigation
system is allowed in the following instances and only with strict adherence to
the following conditions:
Instances:
         1.   Residential development or subdivisions, regardless of the zoning
district, less than three (3) gross or two (2) irrigable acres in size; or
         2.   All development or subdivisions, regardless of zoning district
and other than any type of residential, having less than twenty- six thousand
(26,000) square feet of irrigable landscaped area (which includes all
landscaping as required by this article and any additional voluntary
landscaping for the entire property involved in the development or
subdivision); or
         3.   Any development and/or subdivision, regardless of zoning
district, unable to obtain a continuous irrigation water supply consistent with
CMID standards. In this instance, private ownership, maintenance and operation
shall be mandatory until such time that said continuous supply is obtainable;
         4.   The district of any public school can submit a request to the
city engineer to construct, operate, and maintain a private pressurized
irrigation system for the site regardless of size of area to be irrigated. The
city engineer has the authority to approve or deny this request.
         Conditions:
         1.   City plan review and inspection fees, as set by city council,
shall be required for private systems for all portions required to be built in
accordance with CMID specifications;
         2.   Mains are sized and service connections installed in accordance
with CMID specifications;
         3.   The property is obligated by its owner to a deferral agreement
stipulating to participation in a local improvement district for construction
of and connection to a regional pressurized irrigation system at the time a
main becomes available and/or feasible and the subsequent dedication of said
main(s) at the time of connection to said regional pressurized irrigation
system.
   (2)   Construction Of Irrigation System: The automatic pressurized
irrigation system shall be owned, operated and maintained by the applicable
government irrigation entity except as provided in subsection (1)A of this
section. The irrigation entity shall review and approve the construction
drawings for the irrigation system prior to construction. Actual construction
of the irrigation system shall be reviewed and approved by the irrigation
entity prior to final plat approval or issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
   (3)   Watering Purposes: All new developments or subdivisions shall rely
upon a nonpotable water source for all irrigation and watering purposes and
shall construct and dedicate to the city pressure irrigation facilities in
compliance with city and Caldwell municipal irrigation district (CMID)
standards and requirements except as provided for in subsection (1)A of this
section.
   (4)   Use Of City Water For Irrigation: In the event a property does not
possess a surface or well irrigation water right and/or does not have access to
surface or well water and has provided satisfactory evidence to the public
works director/city engineer of such lack of water right, or access, dry
landscaping (as reviewed and approved by the planning and zoning department)
may be utilized for all required and voluntary landscaped areas. Additionally,
in the event a property does not possess a surface or well irrigation water
right or in the instance of a hardship, the development, subdivision, project
or parcel may use city water for irrigation purposes, under the conditions
noted below in subsections (4)A and (4)B of this section. An application for
approval to use city water for irrigation purposes shall have to be submitted
to and processed by the water department superintendent. The application is
approved or denied on a case-by-case basis by the public works director/city
engineer. All properties within the boundaries of Caldwell lateral irrigation
district and Caldwell municipal irrigation district must connect to pressure
irrigation if it is deemed available by the applicable irrigation district.
      A.   Use Of Potable Municipal Water for Irrigation: Potable municipal
water may be used for irrigation purposes only if one or more of the following
conditions are met:
         1.   Irrigation water or the point of delivery is not available or
located within two hundred fifty feet (250') of commercial or industrial
developments, with less than ten thousand (10,000) irrigable square feet, or
for single-family residential lots, where irrigation water or the point of
delivery is not available or located within one hundred feet (100') of the
property in question.
         2.   The irrigation water system cannot be physically extended as
determined by the appropriate irrigation district.
         3.   The property in question does not have and has not had for any of
the past three (3) years, an irrigation water right and cannot obtain one from
the irrigation district by which the property is bounded. Said irrigation
district must certify to the city that such a right is not available and cannot
be provided.
         4.   When due to physical health or ability, the operation of the
gravity irrigation system has become too difficult to manage, a written letter
explaining the hardship case shall be attached to the application for
consideration. Hardship cases are mutually approved on a case-by-case basis by
the public works director/city engineer and water department superintendent.
         5.   Connection to the existing gravity/surface irrigation water
exceeds two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for commercial lots and
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for residential lots. Public works director/
city engineer and water department superintendent shall grant mutual approval.
         6.   Recurring flooding of dwellings causing damage and unfavorable
conditions is evident and demonstrated to the city public works director/city
engineer and water department superintendent.
      B.   Conditions Of Approval: When connection to potable municipal water
for irrigation purposes is granted, the following conditions must be met and
the property owner agrees that:
         1.   If a property is reliant upon city water for irrigation purposes
and the property owner has the opportunity to connect to a pressurized
irrigation system, that connection shall take place. If this occurs, lock out
devices approved by the city water department shall be installed and inspected
by the water department to ensure that city water is no longer used during the
irrigation season.
         2.   Any connection to the potable water system for irrigation shall
be made in compliance with city and Caldwell municipal irrigation district
standards, including the use of an approved backflow prevention assembly, and
must be approved by the city engineer.
         3.   Inspection of the installation of the Caldwell municipal
irrigation district approved backflow assembly shall be completed by the water
department.
         4.   The property shall be obligated by its owner to enter into a
deferral agreement stipulating participation in a local improvement district
for construction of and connection to a regional pressurized irrigation system.
         5.   When connection to the regional pressure irrigation system
becomes available, the property shall be connected to said regional system by
and at the cost of the property owner.
         6.   The property owner shall agree to retain any and all irrigation
water rights for the subject property.
         7.   Backflow assemblies shall be tested upon installation by a state
certified backflow assembly tester with test results submitted to the water
department within seven (7) calendar days of testing.
         8.   Backflow assemblies must be inspected every twelve (12) months
and results submitted to the water department within seven (7) calendar days of
testing. (Ord. 2928, 6-3-2013)
   (5)   Use Of Shallow Irrigation Wells: In the event a property does not
possess a surface or well irrigation water right and is denied permission to
utilize city water for irrigation purposes, shallow irrigation wells may be
used. Said shallow irrigation wells may also be used as necessary to supplement
surface water rights in order to meet supply needs compliant with city and
Caldwell municipal irrigation district standards.
      A.   If rights for shallow irrigation wells cannot be obtained after
proven diligent effort and submitted written documentation of said effort, and
following case by case approval by the city engineer and the planning and
zoning department director, a dry landscaping plan will have to be prepared and
submitted to the planning and zoning department for approval.
      B.   A permit shall be obtained from the Idaho Department of Water
Resources for all shallow irrigation wells.
      C.   Installation of shallow irrigation wells shall not create any
contamination of the soil, stormwater, drainage water or groundwater.
   (6)   Design Of Systems: Design of irrigation systems shall follow the
requirements of the applicable government irrigation entity that shall own,
operate and maintain said system.
   (7)   Facilities Location:
      A.   Pump Stations: Pump stations shall be located in a platted common
lot (if in a platted subdivision) and a recorded perpetual easement to the city
of Caldwell, said easement encompassing convenient maintenance access to said
pump station. The lot shall be owned and maintained by a homeowners’ or
business owners’ association. The pump station itself shall be maintained and
operated by the government irrigation entity.
      B.   Main Lines: All irrigation main lines shall be located on private
property with the exception of those placed at street crossings. Multi-lot
irrigation main lines shall be located in easements according to city and
irrigation district requirements to enable Caldwell municipal irrigation
district to operate and maintain said lines. Such an agreement would be subject
to city engineer and city council approval. All work within public right of way
must meet city standards as determined by the city engineer.
      C.   Irrigation Wells: Irrigation wells shall be located within a platted
common lot or a recorded permanent perpetual easement. The placement of well
locations may be subject to IDWR and IDEQ approval.
      D.   Conveyance Facilities: Conveyance facilities within or adjacent to
the subject property, including irrigation supply lines, boxes, and diversion
structures, shall be located outside of public right of way. (Ord. 3662, 4-21-
2025)
10-02-09-14 LANDSCAPING IN STORMWATER AREAS:
   (1)   All stormwater areas shall be landscaped with landscaping materials
suitable to the type of stormwater facility. Said landscaping shall not
interfere with the operation or maintenance of any stormwater devices. (Ord.
3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-09-15 LANDSCAPE BONDING:
   (1)   Refer to
10-03-17 for all Performance Bonding requirements including those for all
required landscaping improvements within this Chapter. (Ord. 3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-09-16 VIOLATION, PENALTY, ENFORCEMENT AND COMPLIANCE:
   (1)   Violation, penalties, and enforcement are outlined in
10-03-10 of this Chapter. (Ord. 3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-09-17 APPEALS:
   (1)   All decisions related to the landscape plan review and approvals/
denials may be appealed to the city council provided the controller exercises
that right by filing an appeal application and applicable fee for a public
hearing to be conducted through the city’s public hearing process. (Ord. 3662,
4-21-2025)
10-02-10 CALDWELL TREE ORDINANCE:
10-02-10-1 STATEMENT OF VALUE:
   The City of Caldwell has historically understood the value of community
trees. Trees mitigate air pollution, improve water quality, conserve energy,
reduce soil erosion, produce oxygen, calm our senses, enhance property values
and beautify our surroundings. Healthy, strategically placed trees are valuable
assets to the community of Caldwell. (Ord. 3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-10-2 PURPOSE:
   (1)   The City of Caldwell finds trees and shrubs are very important
elements of the environment, providing many benefits. This article is intended
to encourage the preservation, expansion, protection and proper maintenance of
the city’s trees and shrubs.
   (2)   This article establishes code regulations and standards necessary to
ensure that the city continues to realize the benefits provided by the
community forest. It is not intended to resolve or regulate disputes over trees
on private property that do not affect general public safety. This article is
enacted to:
      A.   Promote the general welfare of the city by establishing and
maintaining the maximum amount of tree canopy coverage provided by trees.
      B.   Preserve and enhance the city’s environmental, economic, social
character and beauty through the appropriate selection of trees and shrubs.
      C.   Protect public safety, health and welfare.
      D.   Encourage site and utility planning, building and development
practices to prevent indiscriminate removal or destruction of trees and avoid
unnecessary disturbance to trees within the city and its Area of Impact by
applying tree care standards contained in ANSI A300 standards. Reduce adverse
impacts of land disturbing activities such as runoff from impervious surfaces,
soil erosion and sedimentation pollution.
      E.   Maintain trees in a healthy, non-hazardous condition through
application of tree care standards contained in ANSI A300.
      F.   Establish and maintain appropriate species diversity and age classes
in order to provide a stable and sustainable community forest.
      G.   Establish a process by which trees are to be planted, pruned and
removed.
      H.   Regulate those who engage in tree and shrub services.
      I.   Implement the goals and objectives of the city’s Comprehensive Plan.
      J.   Educate the public about the protection and preservation of trees
and shrubs. (Ord. 3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-10-3 APPLICABILITY:
   (1)   This article shall apply to any public tree and all trees and shrubs
located in the public right of way as well as to those trees and shrubs located
in public parks, parkways and other city property and on public and private
property that have been declared to be a public nuisance.
   (2)   This article shall also apply to all aspects of the construction
development and redevelopment process involving the planting, retaining or
removing of trees and the associated care and custody of trees during that
process. Further, this Article shall apply to all for-fee arborist services
performed on any tree within the city, whether public or private. (Ord. 3662,
4-21-2025)
10-02-10-4 STANDARDS:
   The City Council will adopt by resolution mandatory standards governing
planting, pruning, removal, care and maintenance of public trees and shrubs,
including those of the ANSI A300 standards. (Ord. 3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-10-5 JURISDICTION:
   The City Forester shall manage and regulate the planting, maintenance,
protection, removal and replacement of all public trees within the city limits.
(Ord. 3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-10-6 DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE CITY FORESTER:
   The City Forester is authorized to:
   (1)   Develop, support and maintain a Community Forestry Management Plan.
   (2)   Maintain a Community Forestry budget to be contained within, but as a
separate division of the Caldwell Parks and Recreation Department. The city may
expend funds to plant, maintain or remove trees in accordance with the
provisions of this article, the Community Forestry Management Plan and existing
policies.
   (3)   Oversee the city’s arborist licensing and certification program and
the supervision of commercial tree and shrub care management.
   (4)   Develop a permitting program for fee and non-fee tree work, to include
procedures for the approval and control of topping practices, and the planting
and removal of public shrubs and trees.
   (5)   Establish and maintain an inventory of all public trees.
   (6)   Approve, deny, suspend or revoke tree or shrub work licenses or
permits issued by the city.
   (7)   Inspect and approve any public tree/shrub work performed in the city.
   (8)   Observe symptoms of plant diseases, make diagnoses and prescribe
treatment.
   (9)   Administer a program of public outreach and education relating to
Community Forestry and the planting and the care of trees. (Ord. 3662, 4-21-
2025)
10-02-10-7 CONTROLLER RESPONSIBILITIES:
   Every Controller, as defined in section
10-01-10 of this article, shall be responsible for the following:
   (1)   Requirements and Permits: Meeting all of the requirements and
obtaining all the permits necessary for work done on or adjacent to the public
right of way as described in this article.
   (2)   Care And Maintenance: Care and maintenance of public trees and shrubs
located in the public right of way adjacent to the Controller’s private real
property, including the following activities or actions:
      A.   Removal and replacement of public trees or removal of those portions
of public trees, including tree stumps, declared to be a public nuisance or
requested to be removed by the city or affected utilities located within the
public right of way. Such action shall be coordinated with the City Forester.
      B.   As part of the city’s tree permitting process, whenever a public
tree or shrub is removed, the controller shall replace it, if deemed necessary
by the City Forester, within two (2) weeks of the removal date, with a tree
from the approved list as shown in section 10-08-18 and further approval from
the city forester. Selection of species shall be from the Tree Selection Guide.
The replacement tree shall be a minimum one and one-half inches to three inches
(1 ½ - 3") minimum #1 quality tree as verified by the City Forester. A fine of
four hundred dollars ($400.00) per tree to be replaced may be assessed if said
trees are not planted within the required two (2) week time period, unless the
replacement period has been extended for good cause shown (example of good
cause shown: the ground is frozen solid).
      C.   When a public tree is removed after approval by the City Forester, a
fee in lieu of planting shall be required if the tree is not replaced. The City
Forester shall determine if the tree must be replaced or if a fee in lieu of
planting may be paid. The fee shall be set by the resolution of the City
Council and monies collected shall be placed in a tree replacement fund to be
used for maintenance or acquisition of public trees.
      D.   Pruning of public trees and shrubs and portions of private trees and
shrubs that encroach upon right of way or right of way area. The branches of
public and private trees and shrubs that overhang sidewalks and/or unimproved
right of way must be pruned to provide ten feet (10') of vertical clearance.
Tree branches of either public or private trees that overhang the street must
be pruned to provide fourteen feet (14') of vertical clearance. All pruning
shall be done in accordance with ANSI A300 standards.
         Should either a public or private tree or shrub be out of compliance
with either the ten foot (10') sidewalk vertical clearance or the fourteen foot
(14') street vertical clearance such that a safety hazard is presented or any
type of utility or street maintenance is impeded, city personnel have the
authority to prune said noncompliant tree or shrub, without permission from the
property owner, provided all pruning takes place on or within public right of
way or right of way area and provided that the portions being trimmed are
hanging over or within public right of way or right of way area. Utility
providers shall trim or cut trees in public rights of way according to ANSI
A300 part 1, pruning standards.
         Shrubs in the right-of-way must be pruned below three feet (3') due to
vision obstruction occurring when the public, (wheelchair included), animals,
and children are using the sidewalk adjacent to the right of way. The sight
vision triangle setback for trees or shrubs at intersections must be adhered to
for the same reason.
      E.   Control of pests injurious to public right of way trees and shrubs
adjacent to controller’s real property.
      F.   Control of pest infestations on private trees and shrubs located on
the controller’s private real property.
   (3)   Maintenance Methods: Maintenance of trees and shrubs by:
      A.   Clearing: The controller is responsible for removing all trees,
shrubs and vegetative work derived debris relating to private trees, shrubs and
vegetation from the street, sidewalk and parkway by sunset on the day on which
the work is done unless street closure is authorized. This requirement includes
immediate removal of any private fallen trees or tree limbs from private trees
that fall into any public right of way area. Failure to immediately remove
private fallen trees or tree limbs from private trees that have fallen into any
public right of way area shall constitute a nuisance and may be abated as such
by the city in any manner provided by law.
      B.   Standards: Care and maintenance of public trees and shrubs shall be
governed in part by the city’s arboricultural specifications and ANSI A300
standards.
      C.   Leaf and Debris Removal: Tree debris and leaves from public trees
that fall in the public streets shall be the city’s responsibility to remove.
Tree debris and leaves from either private or public trees that fall onto
property located between a property line and the street edge or curb, as well
as leaves raked into the street shall be the adjoining controller’s
responsibility to remove.
      D.   Removal of Public Trees and Shrubs: It is the policy of the city
that public trees and shrubs shall not be removed without written authorization
of the city forester and the planning and zoning department.
      E.   Basis for Tree and Shrub Removal: Permits will be granted for tree
and shrub removal based on any of the following criteria:
         1.   The tree or shrub is diseased or is an alternate host of a
significant disease.
         2.   The tree or shrub is harboring injurious insects or pathogens and
may present a danger to the city’s community forest.
         3.   The tree or shrub is dying or near dead and/or poses a public
safety hazard.
         4.   The tree or shrub interferes with overhead utility lines and
creates a public safety hazard. In this instance the utility provider’s
standards will be relied upon for assessment purposes.
         5.   The tree or shrub causes sight obstruction in the vision triangle
that cannot be resolved (see section 10-07-07).
         6.   Any other removal criteria deemed appropriate by the city
forester. Note: There is no charge for tree and shrub removal permits.
      A.   Removal of Trees or Shrubs on Private Property Impacting Public
Property: A person engaging in the removal of any tree, shrub or portion
thereof that may fall or fall on or in the public right of way must first
obtain a permit from the City Forester and must call Digline at (208) 342-1585
before removal. If it is apparent that the removal of a tree or shrub from
private land may fall and cause injury to person or public property, the
property owner or their agent must give the city police and fire department
twenty-four (24) hours’ notice prior to removal unless there is an imminent
danger imposed by its continued presence.
      B.   Tree Removal and Trimming Permit Required: Prior to engaging in the
removal or replacement of trees or shrubs, to include trimming, cutting and
pruning in the public rights of way, the controller must first obtain a tree
removal permit from the City Forester, and must call Digline at (208) 342-1585
before removal or planting. The City Forester or other staff representative
will inspect the work for compliance; all removal costs shall be at the
applicant’s expense. A fine of four hundred dollars ($400.00) shall be assessed
to the controller/applicant and a fine of four hundred dollars ($400.00) shall
be assessed to the company that performed the removal and/or trimming if a
permit was not first obtained from the City Forester prior to removal and/or
trimming and if the company was not on the city’s approved list of companies
allowed to trim and/or remove trees and/or shrubs.
      C.   Any person authorized to remove live or dead trees, shrubs or other
vegetation from the city parks or along the streets and alleys of the city or
within public right of way shall do so in such a way that no tree stump or main
root system remains above ground but to a depth of eight inches (8") below the
ground surface. After excavation or grinding, the ground shall be restored to a
smooth and level surface. Any required grinding of a stump shall be completed
within two (2) weeks of tree removal.
      D.   Replacing Trees and Shrubs; Selection Criteria: Selection and
location of required replacement trees and shrubs shall be based on the city’s
arboricultural standards and specifications guide. It shall also be based upon
other applicable city standards regarding the placement of said trees and
shrubs. Refer to the Tree Selection Guide for tree selection.
      E.   Provide water sufficient to keep trees and shrubs located on public
right of way in a healthy, growing condition.
   (4)   Damage To Sidewalk and Surrounding Area by The Roots of Private or
Public Trees or Shrubs: All trees or shrubs growing close to the sidewalk have
the potential to raise or cause a disconnection in the sidewalk. Should the
sidewalk or curb raise, or disconnection occur, consideration will be given to
modifying the sidewalk’s placement to accommodate tree or shrubbery growth on a
case by case basis. The decision to modify the sidewalk shall be made in
consultation with the city engineer and city forester.
      The failure of the controller to respond to a request to remove said
trees and shrubs and repair said sidewalk shall result in abatement as outlined
in this article and/or assessment of an additional four hundred dollar
($400.00) fine over and above any fines assessed through the abatement process.
(Ord. 3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-10-8 NUISANCES DESIGNATED:
   The following are hereby declared public nuisances:
   (1)   Any tree, shrub or other plant, which by reason of location or
condition constitutes an imminent danger to the health, safety or welfare of
the general public; harbors pathogens or injurious insects which reasonably may
be expected to injure or harm other trees or shrubs; obstructs the free passage
of pedestrian or vehicular traffic or obstructs a streetlight or traffic
control device; and/or obstructs the view in the vision triangle, including
alley trees that fall in the public nuisance section. Also, the roots of any
tree or shrub that interferes with or causes the surface of the street, curb or
sidewalk in public right of way to be upheaved or disturbed.
   (2)   Any tree suspected of having Dutch elm disease or fungus organisms
known by the scientific names of Graphium ulmi, Ceratostomella ulmi and/or
Ceratocystis ulmi, elm bark beetles, Scolytus multistriatus or Hylurgopinus
rufipes; any standing elm tree infected with Dutch elm disease or which harbors
elm bark beetles; and any dead elm tree or part thereof, including logs,
stumps, or other elm material from which the bark has been removed.
   (3)   The city’s agents have the authority to enter onto private property
where there is reasonable cause to believe that there is a tree, shrub or other
plant located there that is a public nuisance; furthermore, said agents have
the authority to reasonably mark said tree, shrub or other plant for ease of
identification.
   (4)   Any public or private tree infected by an insect, pest or disease
which is determined by the City Forester to pose a health threat to any other
public or private tree. An example is sudden oak death disease. (Ord. 3662, 4-
21-2025)
10-02-10-9 NUISANCE ABATEMENT:
   (1)   Any public nuisance as designated within this section located on
either city owned or private property or public right of way shall be abated in
a technique as approved by the City Forester and in accordance with the
abatement process outlined in this section and section
07-11-05 of the Caldwell City Code.
   (2)   Public Nuisance Considered an Immediate Threat: The City Forester or
the Director or his/her authorized designee is empowered to cause the immediate
abatement of any public nuisance as designated within this section determined
to be a threat to any person or property.
      (3)   If the City Forester determines that disposal of the wood, branches
and soil from removal or pruning of a nuisance tree is required to complete
abatement, such disposal shall be done. All costs associated with the disposal
of material from the public right of way shall be the responsibility of the
property owner. (Ord. 3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-10-10 DAMAGING, DESTROYING OR TOPPING OF PUBLIC TREES AND SHRUBS:
   It is unlawful for any person to:
   (1)   Damage, mutilate or destroy any public tree and/or shrub.
   (2)   Store or place, or cause to be stored or placed, oil, gasoline,
chemicals (such as herbicides), and other materials which are harmful to trees
and shrubs around or near public trees, shrubs and other vegetation.
   (3)   Attach a potentially harmful device or structure (such as a tree house
or sign) to a public tree unless otherwise authorized by the City Forester.
   (4)   Spill or dump substances, whether liquid or solid, which are toxic to
persons, animals, trees, shrubs and vegetative matter.
   (5)   Make excavations in the soil within the tree’s root zone, from the
trunk to the edge of the dripline.
   (6)   Damage a public tree by the practice of “topping”, except trees
severely damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility
wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may
be exempt from this provision based on the City Forester’s determination.
   (7)   Compensatory Payments: In the event any person removes, destroys or
damages any public tree except as otherwise required by law, that person shall
be required to replace such tree with a tree(s) of equivalent dollar value on
public property, unless otherwise determined by the City Forester. The value of
a tree shall be determined by the city forester in accordance with accepted
plant appraisal methods as set forth in the 9th edition or the most current
edition of The Guide for Plant Appraisal, published by the International
Society of Arboriculture or the same as amended from time to time.
      If no suitable location exists in the vicinity of the tree removed or if
the replacement tree(s) is of lesser value, the person causing the tree to be
removed shall make a compensatory payment to the City of Caldwell equal to the
difference in value between the tree removed and any replacement tree(s).
      Any public tree that is determined by the City Forester to be damaged,
but not sufficiently to justify its removal, shall be considered to be
devalued. The amount of devaluation shall be paid to the city by the person
causing the damage. Compensatory payments shall be paid into a fund established
for that purpose and restricted to use for the community forestry programs.
Nothing in this article shall prohibit the City of Caldwell from negotiating
agreements with other governmental entities regarding penalties and
compensatory payment for removal, damage or destruction of public trees. (Ord.
3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-10-11 PRIVATE TREE SERVICE FEE LICENSING AND CERTIFICATION:
   (1)   License Required: It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of planting, pruning, or removing a public tree or shrub for a fee
without being licensed and certified as required by this section.
   (2)   Arborist Contractor’s License: Any person engaged in the Arborist
business for fee shall obtain a license from the City Forester. The license
stipulates that the contractor, or one or more employees, be certified, and the
certified individual(s) be on the site when arboricultural practices are being
done. It is required that the contractor’s insurance extends to all employees
while they are conducting arborist work within city limits.
   (3)   Arborist Certification: An arborist certification is required of any
individual who personally performs arboricultural services or procedures
allowed under this section for a fee, unless that person is working under the
direct supervision of a certified arborist. The City Forester shall approve or
deny the applicant’s permit based upon the possession of a valid arborist
certification. The arborist certification is acquired through the International
Society of Arboriculture testing program or other certification process
acceptable to the City Forester. The applicant shall submit to an examination
of his or her practical skills at the discretion of the City Forester in
accordance with ANSI A300 standards.
      A.   License Application Procedures:
         1.   Application for License: Application for an arborist contractor’s
license shall be sought from the City Forester on a city form and accompanied
by proof of an appropriate liability and workman’s compensation insurance when
applicable. The City Forester shall approve or deny the application within
seven (7) days, based upon the following criteria:
            (A)   The applicant has not been convicted of a violation of this
section within the preceding two (2) years.
            (B)   The applicant shows proof that he or she has obtained a valid
arborist certification, or that the applicant is currently employing a holder
of a valid arborist certification.
         2.   Denial of License: The City Forester may deny or revoke a license
application if the applicant’s arboricultural practices are inconsistent with
ANSI A300 or ISA standards.
         3.   License or Certification Issuance: The City Forester shall
forward the approved arborist license and certification to the City Clerk, who
shall issue the license to the applicant upon payment of a fee as set by
resolution of the Caldwell City Council.
      B.   License Terms and Renewal: The arborist contractor’s license and
certification shall be valid for the calendar year in which it was issued and
will expire on December 31.
         1.   Filing A Renewed Application with The City Forester: The
applicant may renew the arborist contractor’s license upon showing proof of and
workman’s compensation insurance when applicable, a current arborist
certification and payment of the appropriate fees.
         2.   Valid Certification Mandatory: The arborist certification period
of validation must coincide with the contractor license period of validation.
      C.   License Fees: License fees shall be established by the resolution of
Caldwell City Council.
      D.   License Insurance Coverage: Applications for an arborist
contractor’s license shall be accompanied by proof of insurance acceptable to
the City Forester showing the applicant has a policy of liability and property
damage listing the City of Caldwell as an additional insured. Workman’s
compensation insurance with policy limits equal to or greater than the minimum
designated by council resolution, which complies with requirements set forth in
Idaho Code Title 6, Chapter 9. The policy is to remain in full force and effect
during the term of the license. Compliance with OSHA regulations. (Ord. 3662,
4-21-2025)
10-02-10-12 LICENSEE RESPONSIBILITY:
   All licensees shall be responsible for ensuring that the work performed is
in compliance with the provisions of this section. All licensees shall:
   (1)   Utilize safety measures and equipment to protect workers and the
public as prescribed by law and ANSI A300 standards.
   (2)   Obtain required permits for tree and shrub removal.
   (3)   Comply with all applicable city, county, state and federal laws.
   (4)   Comply with the city’s specifications and ANSI A300 standards for tree
planting, pruning, removal, root pruning and cultural maintenance practices;
including dead limbs that are considered a public nuisance.
   (5)   The branches of public and private trees and shrubs that overhang
sidewalks and/or unimproved right of way must be pruned to provide ten feet
(10') of vertical clearance. Tree branches of either public or private trees
that overhang the street must be pruned to provide fourteen feet (14') of
vertical clearance. Should either a public or private tree or shrub be out of
compliance with either the ten foot (10') sidewalk vertical clearance or the
fourteen foot (14') street vertical clearance such that a safety hazard is
presented, or any type of utility or street maintenance is impeded; the limbs
must be pruned to meet these clearances.
   (6)   License Transfer or Refund: Licenses granted pursuant to this section
shall not be transferable, nor shall any license be refundable.
   (7)   License Suspension/Revocation: The City Forester may suspend or revoke
any license when the licensee commits one or more of the following acts:
      A.   Violation of any provision of this section.
      B.   Knowingly conspiring with another person to permit one’s license or
certification to be used by such other person unless employed by the licensee.
      C.   Acting as an agent, partner, and associate or in any other capacity
with another person in an attempt to evade the provisions of this article.
   (8)   Appeal Procedures: When a license is suspended, revoked, or denied,
the applicant may appeal that action according to the provisions outlined in
this section.
      A.   Such appeal shall be filed in writing with a fee set by the City
Council and submitted to the Director within ten (10) days from the date of
notification by the City Forester’s ruling.
      B.   The appeal shall be heard by the City Council and the appellant
shall be delayed until the decision is rendered. The decision of the City
Council shall be final. (Ord. 3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-10-13 PERMIT PROCEDURES FOR INDIVIDUALS:
   (1)   General Procedures: Individuals and for fee licensees shall abide by
the following permit procedures:
      A.   There shall be no charge for a tree or shrub planting or removal
permit.
      B.   Each application for a planting permit shall designate the species
and variety of public tree proposed prior to issuance of a permit. The City
Forester shall designate the location of the planting.
      C.   In addition to a tree work permit, a right of way permit as obtained
from the City Engineering Department may be required for any work that will
impact the free and full use of any street or alley. Should a tree be planted
in conflict with the provisions of this code, it shall be lawful for the City
Forester to remove or cause the removal of same. The cost to remove may be
charged to the person responsible for the planting. In addition to obtaining a
permit, individuals must call Digline at (208) 342-1585 before planting or
removal.
      D.   Upon inspection the City Forester may issue a permit, if required,
and impose such terms and conditions as may be appropriate and necessary under
the specific circumstances of the work.
   (2)   Permit Application Procedures:
      A.   Planting, Pruning, Trimming, disease/pest abatement, or Removal:
Application for a permit to do public tree work consisting of planting,
pruning, trimming, root pruning, disease/pest abatement or removal shall be
submitted on a form supplied by the City Forester. Refer to section 10-08-18 of
this code for the recommended tree list and section 10-08-20 for the not to be
planted in right of way.
      B.   Tree Topping: A special permit is required from the City Forester
for tree topping. (Ord. 3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-10-14 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   Damage or destruction of a public tree or shrub by any person, except as
lawfully stated herein shall cause said tree or shrub to be replaced according
to the tree mitigation standards noted herein, section
10-02-10.
   (1)   Intentional interference with the City Forester in the performance of
his or her duties is unlawful and is a misdemeanor, punishable pursuant to this
code and Idaho Code.
   (2)   Failure to perform tree services in compliance with accepted and
established arboricultural standards and specifications guide of the city shall
be a misdemeanor. Any person convicted of a violation of this subsection shall
be fined pursuant to this code and Idaho Code.
   (3)   Failure to comply with the permitting and licensing provisions of this
article shall be a misdemeanor. Any person(s) convicted of a violation of this
subsection shall be fined not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300) or be
imprisoned in the Canyon County Jail for a period not to exceed six (6) months
or by both such fine and imprisonment, pursuant to this code and Idaho Code.
   (4)   In addition to any criminal penalties that may be imposed, the city
may pursue civil penalties and restitution for actual damages as set for in
this code. (Ord. 3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-10-15 TREE PRESERVATION AND MITIGATION:
   (1)   Tree Retainage Credit: Trees retained as part of a development may
count toward the required landscape, provided the tree(s) intended for
retainage are not prohibited within the subject area. No credit shall be
provided for trees retained in rights of way nor may any tree located there be
removed as part of a development pursuit without prior city approval. Trees
prohibited by this article may remain as part of a development/redevelopment
process without credit. Primary consideration for what species of trees to
remain would be; are they listed as suitable for growing indicated in the Tree
Selection Guide.
   (2)   Tree Preservation Credit: The planning and zoning department, in
cooperation with the City Forester, may allow the development’s required number
of parking spaces to be reduced by up to fifteen percent (15%) to accommodate
the preservation of existing trees with a caliper of four inches (4") or
greater. Parking space reduction credit must correlate to the number of trees
salvaged by that process. Parking space requirements are quantified according
to the type of land use listed in the Caldwell zoning ordinance. A request for
parking space reduction must be made in writing to planning and zoning at the
time of parking/landscaping plan submittal.
   (3)   Tree Replacement Process (Mitigation): Any tree four inches (4") or
greater in caliper that is removed during development shall be replaced with a
one and one-half inch (1 ½ “) to three-inch (3") caliper tree, rated as a #1
quality tree and as verified by the City Forester. Selection of what species to
replace will come from the Tree Selection Guide. If there is not enough room on
the subject site to replace the caliper inch of trees that were removed, the
developer will contribute a dollar amount equal to the corresponding caliper
inch of trees to a Tree Bank for future tree planting. The city may choose
which park, cemetery, or site is most in need of trees.
   (4)   Exceptions:
      A.   If the tree is removed because it poses a health or safety hazard,
the tree will not need to be replaced, provided the City Forester determines a
replacement tree installed at the same location poses a similar risk.
      B.   Trees required to be removed by another governmental agency of
jurisdiction need no mitigation. The applicant will need to provide information
to substantiate another agency’s tree removal requirement.
      C.   The removal of a tree regardless of circumstances shall be replaced
with equivalent to a one and one-half inch (1½ “) to three-inch (3") caliper
tree, rated as a #1 quality tree and as verified by the City Forester. (Ord.
3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-10-16 PLANTING SPECIFICATIONS:
   The City Forester is hereby empowered to make rules and regulations to
govern planting of trees within the city to include replacement trees. These
regulations shall govern specifications and placement for planting trees and
restrictions on species of trees to be planted in the city.
   (1)   Permit Required: No person or owner shall plant any tree within the
public right of way until the city forester has issued a permit. Applications
for tree planting shall be filed with the City Forester. Such trees must be of
the type and variety permitted by the street tree list. The City Forester shall
approve each tree for suitability, as well as resistance to disease and pests.
Any application denied by the City Forester shall be returned to the applicant
with reason for refusal. The applicant is free to file a new application or an
amended application when the issue(s) identified have been resolved or they may
appeal the denial.
   (2)   Permit Content: The tree planting permit shall include the type, size,
and variety of tree permitted. The permit will identify the specific site
location of the tree.
   (3)   Planting Criteria: The City Forester shall provide the applicant with
the type of species that are permitted in various areas for planting, spacing
information and minimum tree well sizes for trees planted in paved areas upon
request.
   (4)   Variance from Street Tree List: Variance from the Tree Selection Guide
may be granted by the City Forester if that action does not conflict with the
city’s interest. (Ord. 3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-10-17 RECOMMENDED STREET TREE LIST:
   Recommended Street Tree List Representing Class 2 and Class 3 Trees: Please
refer to the Tree Selection Guide to determine the best tree for your planting
site.
   (1)   Class I Trees: Small trees generally not reaching more than 25-30' in
height. These trees shall be planted under power lines or small planting areas.
For an understanding of tree placement requirements beneath overhead utilities
or associated with underground utilities in proximity to trees. Parkway width
is recommended to be four (4') minimum. Refer to section 10-08-20 for a list of
trees not to be planted in the parkway or right of way.
   (2)   Class II Trees: Medium sized trees planted for street tree (right- of-
way) and general landscape uses. Growing to heights from thirty (30') to forty
feet (40') with similar canopy spread. Parkway width recommended six (6')
minimum. Refer to section 10-08-20 for a list of trees not to be planted in the
parkway or right of way.
   (3)   Class III Trees: Long lived trees that attain large height and trunk
diameter that may be utilized for street tree use, provided the area is large
enough to accommodate them. Attaining heights varying from forty (40') to one
hundred feet (100') with a canopy spread extending thirty-five (35') to eighty
feet (80') in width. Parkway width recommended ten (10') minimum. Refer to
section 10-08-20 for a list of trees not to be planted in the parkway or right
of way.
   (4)   Evergreen Trees: Evergreen trees can pose a sight vision problem for
vehicles, pedestrians, bicyclists and are not recommended for use as a parkway
or right of way tree. Fruit and nut bearing trees are not suitable as a street
or right of way tree due to the fruit dropping, staining sidewalks and
pedestrian safety from slipping on the fruit or nuts.
   (5)   Placement Under Power Lines: Class I trees generally grow to a maximum
height of 25-30' with a 15-30' width and are the best tree to use under power
lines. Check with the proper city department to determine where underground
utilities are located. Refer to section 10-08-20 for a list of trees not to be
planted in the parkway or right-of-way.
   (6)   This is by no means a complete list of trees that could be planted in
the public right of way. The City Forester will review requests for the
placement of any other species upon request. (Ord. 3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-10-18 SHRUBS:
   Proposed shrubbery species will be evaluated for growth potential. Most
shrubs available from landscape nurseries will be acceptable for planting
purposes, if they grow to a maximum height of three (3'). Shrubs in the right
of way must be pruned to a maximum height of three feet (3') due to vision
obstruction occurring when the public (wheelchair included), animals, children,
etc. use the sidewalk. The sight vision triangle must be adhered to at
intersections for the same reasons. (Ord. 3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-10-19 NOT TO BE PLANTED IN RIGHT OF WAY:
   Please see the Tree Selection Guide at tvcanopy.net/tree-selection-guide for
the list of trees not suitable for planting in any public right of way in the
City of Caldwell. Certain trees exhibit characteristics including but not
limited to extreme insect or disease susceptibility, soft or brittle wood and/
or limited cold and heat hardiness. Such problems often lead to excessive
maintenance costs, hazards to other trees and potential public safety hazards.
Class I and Class III trees are not allowed in the City of Caldwell right of
way unless planter width is ten feet (10') or wider. Conifers and shrub
plantings over three feet (3') are not allowed in the City of Caldwell right of
way. (Ord. 3662, 4-21-2025)
10-02-10-20 DUTCH ELM DISEASE:
   (1)   When Dutch Elm Disease is found to exist in or on trees on public
property or in public right of way, the trees shall be removed as provided in
subsection (2) of this section.
   (2)   When Dutch Elm Disease is found to exist in or on trees on privately
owned property, after notice has been served upon the owner of the premises, it
shall thereupon become the duty of the owner, or his agent, or occupant or
person having custody and control of the property to cause such tree to be
removed and destroyed under the direction and supervision of the City Forester.
In lieu thereof, it shall be abated through the abatement process as outlined
in section 10-08-10 of this code.
   (3)   Whenever an elm tree is found to be infected with Dutch Elm Disease,
the City Forester may order, at his/her sole discretion, all elms within a
radius of one thousand feet (1,000') to be treated after first giving public
notice by publication once in a newspaper of general circulation in the city
setting forth the area to be treated and the time said treating is to be done,
at least twenty-four (24) hours before treating restricting parking in the
affected area. Additionally, written notice shall be mailed to all property
owners within the affected one-thousand-foot (1,000') radius at least five (5)
days prior to treatment. When such notice has been given and parking
restrictions placed in effect, the city shall not allow any claim for damage
caused by the treatment to any vehicle.
   (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person to give, sell, or offer for sale
as firewood any part of a diseased tree of any species of elm, zelkova or
planera. (Ord. 3662, 4-21-2025)
ARTICLE 3: ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
Section
   
10-03-01      Annexations, Deannexations, And Preannexations
   
10-03-02      Zoning Ordinance Text And Map Amendments (Rezones)
   
10-03-03      Adoption, Amendment, Or Repeal Of The Comprehensive Plan
   
10-03-04      Special Use Permits
   
10-03-05      Variances
   
10-03-06      Fees
   
10-03-07      Transportation Policies and Practices
   
10-03-07-1   Traffic Impact Study Requirements
   
10-03-07-2   Appeals
   
10-03-08      Severability
   
10-03-09      Conflict With Other Laws And Repealer
   
10-03-10      Violation, Penalties, And Enforcement
   
10-03-11      Development Agreements
   
10-03-12      Public Hearing Process
   
10-03-13      Design Review Process
   
10-03-13-1   General Provisions
   
10-03-13-2   Types of Design Review
   
10-03-13-3   Application Submittal And Processing
   
10-03-13-4   Design Review Expirations
   
10-03-13-5   Prohibitions
   
10-03-13-6   Nuisances
   
10-03-14      Development Impact Fees
   
10-03-15      Business Licensing
   
10-03-16      Alternative Methods Of Compliance
   
10-03-17      Performance Bonding
   
10-03-18      Density Bonus Program
10-03-01 ANNEXATIONS, DEANNEXATIONS, AND PREANNEXATIONS:
   (1)   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to establish procedures for
annexation, deannexations and preannexations.
      A.   Annexations may be initiated by the Council or by an application
from one (1) or more property owners.
   (2)   General Authority: Caldwell has, and shall exercise, the authority to
annex land into the city upon compliance with the procedures required in this
section as allowed by state law.
   (3)   Applicability: The provisions of this section shall apply to all lands
within the legally defined Caldwell City Limits, the Caldwell Area of City
Impact, and all other annexable properties as set forth in Idaho Code § 50-222.
   (4)   Annexations; City Initiated: City-initiated annexations shall be
initiated and processed according to Idaho Code § 50-222.
   (5)   Annexations; Owner-Consented: Owner-consented annexations shall be
processed according to Idaho Code § 50-222 and this section.
      A.   Neighborhood meeting required. Any person seeking annexation for
their affected property shall first conduct a neighborhood meeting in
accordance with
10-03-12 of this chapter.
      B.   Application Submittal. Any person seeking annexation shall file a
completed application, checklist, and all appropriate fees, with Planning and
Zoning on forms prescribed by the Department, accompanied by such data and
information necessary to assure the fullest presentation of facts, as
determined by the Director. The Director shall have the authority to require
any additional information or data necessary to aid in understanding and
reviewing the request. Annexation requests not accompanied by a special use
permit, planned unit development, or subdivision preliminary plat must include
a conceptual development plan as required by the Department. All applicable
fees must be paid prior to formal acceptance of any application.
      C.   Public Notice and Hearings. The commission and city council shall
conduct the public notice and hearings in accordance with the procedures set
forth in
10-03-12 of this chapter, and pursuant to the notice and hearing procedures
provided in section 67-6509, Idaho Code.
      D.   Commission-level public hearing:
         1.   The commission, prior to recommending approval or denial to the
Council for an annexation application, shall conduct at least one public
hearing in which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard.
         2.   After considering the written and oral comments of property
owners whose land would be annexed, and other affected persons, the commission
may make a recommendation to city council for the approval or denial of such
requests. The commission shall state the reasons for such approval or denial
recommendation as part of the public record.
      E.   Council-level public hearing:
         1.   Annexations may be approved or denied only after the city council
has received a recommendation from the commission and a public hearing has been
held in relation thereto before the council in which parties in interest and
citizens shall have an opportunity to be heard. The council shall use the same
notice and hearing procedures as outlined in this chapter.
         2.   After considering the written and oral comments of property
owners whose land would be annexed, and other affected persons, the city
council shall make the express findings as set forth in Idaho Code § 50-222. In
addition to the express findings, whenever the city council grants or denies an
application, it shall specify:
            (A)   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the
application;
            (B)   The reasons for approval or denial; and
            (C)   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain
approval.
         3.   Decisions to grant or deny any application for a Category A
Annexation does not require that the council articulate or provide findings
justifying its decision.
         4.   The city may require a development agreement in conjunction with
an annexation pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-6511A and this chapter.
         5.   In the case of a city-initiated annexation, the decision of a
city council to annex and zone land shall be subject to judicial review in
accordance with the procedures provided in chapter 52, title 67, Idaho Code,
and pursuant to the standards set forth in section 67-5279, Idaho Code.
   (6)   Ordinance of Annexation:
      A.   The implementation of any annexation proposal wherein the city
council determines that the annexation is appropriate shall be concluded with
the passage of an ordinance of annexation.
   (7)   Exclusion or Deannexation/Disannexation of Land(s).
      A.   Applications to exclude or deannex/disannex land from within the
incorporated limits of the city shall be processed in the same manner as
applications to annex.
      B.   The council may choose to grant or deny such applications to
deannex, in its sole discretion, as provided in Idaho Code section 50-225.
Decisions to grant or deny any application for exclusion, deannexation or
disannexation do not require that the council articulate or provide findings
justifying its decision.
   (8)   Pre-Annexation.
      A.   For properties requesting use of city utilities, whereby the parcel
(s) are not contiguous to city limits, but intend to annex at a future date
when contiguous, the applicant must consent and request annexation by a binding
agreement in accordance with Caldwell City Code and the submission of a pre-
annexation application, which shall run with the land to which it appertains so
that the same shall operate as a written request for annexation when the
property can be legally annexed. (Ord. 3576, 3-19-2024; amd. Ord. 3642, 1-21-
2025)
10-03-02 ZONING ORDINANCE TEXT AND MAP AMENDMENTS (REZONES):
   (1)   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to establish procedures for
making amendments to the official zoning map or zoning ordinance of the City of
Caldwell to reflect changes in public policy, changed conditions, or to advance
the welfare of the City. The zoning classification of any parcel in the city,
or the text of the zoning ordinance, may be amended using this procedure. The
purpose is neither to relieve particular hardships nor to confer special
privileges or rights on any person.
   (2)   Initiation of Proceedings: Amendments to the text of this zoning
ordinance, or to the official zoning map may be initiated by the city council,
the planning commission, the planning director, or by an application of one or
more of the owners of property affected by the proposed amendment.
   (3)   Amendment Procedures:
      A.   Neighborhood Meeting, Required. Any person seeking an amendment to
the zoning ordinance or zoning map for their affected property shall first
conduct a neighborhood meeting in accordance with
10-03-12 of this chapter.
      B.   Application. Any person seeking an amendment to the text of this
zoning ordinance, or to the official zoning map, shall file a completed
application, checklist, and all appropriate fees, with Planning and Zoning on
forms prescribed by the Department, accompanied by such data and information
necessary to assure the fullest presentation of facts, as determined by the
Director. The Director shall have the authority to require any additional
information or data necessary to aid in understanding and reviewing the
request. Requests not accompanied by a special use permit, planned unit
development, or subdivision preliminary plat must include a conceptual
development plan as required by the Department. All applicable fees must be
paid prior to formal acceptance of any application.
      C.   Public Notice and Hearings. The commission and city council shall
conduct the public notice and hearings in accordance with the procedures set
forth in
10-03-12 of this chapter, and pursuant to the notice and hearing procedures
provided in Section 67-6509, Idaho Code.
      D.   The city may require a development agreement in conjunction with a
zoning map amendment (rezone) pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-6511A and this
chapter.
   (4)   Commission Consideration and Decision:
      A.   The commission, prior to recommending an amendment, supplement, or
repeal of this chapter to the Council, or prior to recommending approval or
denial to the Council for any application, shall conduct at least one public
hearing in which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard.
   (5)   City Council Consideration and Decision:
      A.   Zoning ordinance text and/or zoning map amendments may be approved
or denied only after the city council has received a recommendation from the
commission, and a public hearing has been held in relation thereto before the
council, in which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard.
      B.   The city council, prior to approving any ordinance text amendment
request, shall find and conclude the requests have met the criteria identified
within subsection (6) of this section, and shall make the express findings of
such.
      C.   The city council, prior to approving any ordinance map amendment
request, shall find and conclude the requests have met the criteria identified
within subsection (7) of this section, and shall make the express findings of
such.
      D.   In addition to the express findings required in subsection B and C
of this section, whenever the city council grants or denies an application, it
shall specify:
         1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
         2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
         3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain
approval.
      E.   If the city council approves the proposed amendment, it shall become
effective after publication of the ordinance summary and shall thereafter be
made part of this chapter by appropriate amendment of the official zoning map
or text of the municipal code.
   (6)   Required Findings for Approval of a Zoning Ordinance Text Amendment:
      A.   In the course of consideration of any such request, the city
council, upon recommendation from the commission, must find and conclude that:
         1.   The request has met compliance with all public notice and hearing
requirements of the City Code and Idaho Code; and
         2.   That ONE (1) or MORE of the following criteria exits:
            (A)   The original zoning ordinance is in error;
            (B)   Significant changes in the community’s vision, goals, and/or
policies have taken place;
            (C)   Significant changes in city-wide or neighborhood development
patterns have occurred; and/or
            (D)   The proposed text amendments are necessary to carry out the
vision, goals, and policies of the adopted comprehensive plan.
   (7)   Required Findings for Approval of a Zoning Map Amendment (Rezone):
      A.   In the course of consideration of any such request, the city
council, upon recommendation from the commission, must find and conclude ALL of
the following:
         1.   The proposed zoning map amendment is consistent with the
comprehensive plan’s land use map, and the plan’s established goals,
objectives, and policies. If the request is not in accordance with the adopted
comprehensive plan, the request for amendment shall not take place until after
the comprehensive plan has been amended under notice and hearing procedures
provided in this chapter and within section 67-6509, Idaho Code; and
         2.   The proposed map amendment is consistent with the purpose
statement of the proposed zoning district; and
         3.   The intensity of development in the new zoning district is not
expected to create significantly adverse impacts to surrounding properties or
the neighborhood, or has proposed efforts to mitigate or minimize such adverse
impacts; and
         4.   The information provided from the agencies having jurisdiction
over the public facilities needed for this site indicate that adequate public
facilities exist, or are expected to be provided, to serve all uses allowed on
this property under the proposed zone. (Ord. 3576, 3-19-2024; amd. Ord. 3642,
1-21-2025)
10-03-03 ADOPTION, AMENDMENT OR REPEAL OF THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish procedures for
comprehensive plan amendments, including amendments to the future land use map.
   (2)   Initiation Of Proceedings:
      A.   Amendments to the text of the comprehensive plan may be initiated by
the city council, the planning commission, or the planning director.
      B.   An amendment to the comprehensive plan map may be initiated by the
city council, the planning commission, the planning director, or by an
application of one or more of the owners of property affected by the proposed
amendment.
   (3)   Amendment Application Procedures:
      A.   Neighborhood Meeting Required. Any person seeking an amendment to
the comprehensive plan map for their affected property shall first conduct a
neighborhood meeting in accordance with
10-03-12 of this chapter.
      B.   Application Submission. Any person seeking an amendment shall file a
completed application, checklist, and all appropriate fees, with Planning and
Zoning on forms prescribed by the Department, accompanied by such data and
information necessary to assure the fullest presentation of facts, as
determined by the Director. The Director shall have the authority to require
any additional information or data necessary to aid in understanding and
reviewing the amendment request.
         1.   If the requested amendment is for a comprehensive map change, it
may be concurrently reviewed with an application for amendment of the zoning
map or an application for annexation, provided procedural requirements for each
application are met.
         2.   No application for the same comprehensive plan map amendment,
concerning the same property, which has been denied by the City, shall be
received or processed by the Planning and Zoning Department within six (6)
months of such denial, unless the Planning Director determines that significant
changes have been made to the prior development proposal.
   (4)   Public Notice and Hearings: The commission and city council shall
conduct the public notice and hearings in accordance with the procedures set
forth in
10-03-12 of this chapter, and pursuant to the notice and hearing procedures
provided in section 67-6509, Idaho Code.
   (5)   Commission Consideration and Decision:
      A.   The commission, prior to recommending an amendment, supplement, or
repeal of the comprehensive plan to the Council, or prior to recommending
approval or denial to the Council for any application, shall conduct at least
one public hearing in which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be
heard.
   (6)   City Council Consideration and Decision:
      A.   Comprehensive plan amendments may be approved or denied only after
the city council has received a recommendation from the planning commission,
and a public hearing has been held in relation thereto before the council, in
which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard.
      B.   The city council, prior to approving any comprehensive plan text
amendment requests, shall find and conclude the requests have met the criteria
identified in subsection (7) of this section, and shall make the express
findings of such.
      C.   The city council, prior to approving any comprehensive plan map
amendment requests, shall find and conclude the requests have met the criteria
identified in subsection (8) of this section, and shall make the express
findings of such.
      D.   In addition to the express findings, whenever the city council
grants or denies an application, it shall specify:
         1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
         2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
         3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain
approval.
      E.   If the city council approves the proposed amendment, it shall be
effective through the enactment of a resolution. A copy of the adopted or
amended plan shall accompany each adopting resolution and shall be kept on file
with the city clerk. If the approval is for, or includes approval of a
comprehensive plan map amendment, and it shall thereafter be made a part of the
comprehensive plan by appropriate amendment of the future land use map.
   (7)   Required Findings for Approval of a Comprehensive Plan Text Amendment:
      A.   In the course of consideration of any such request, the city
council, upon recommendation from the commission, must find and conclude that
ONE (1) or MORE of the following criteria exists.
         1.   The amendment is based upon new information that was not
available at the time of adoption of the comprehensive plan, or circumstances
have changed since the adoption of the plan that warrant an amendment to the
plan;
         2.   An amendment is necessary to correct, update, and/or clarify one
or more goals, objectives, or policies that exist in the plan;
         3.   The proposed text amendment will help further the goals,
objectives, and policies within or between any chapter of the Caldwell
Comprehensive Plan;
         4.   The proposed text amendment provides an improved guide for future
growth and development of the city; and/or
         5.   An update is necessary or required in accordance with Chapter 65,
Title 67, Idaho Code.
   (8)   Required Findings for Approval of a Comprehensive Plan Map Amendment:
      A.   In the course of consideration of any such request, the city
council, upon recommendation from the commission, must find and conclude that
ALL of the following criteria exist.
      1.   The proposed amendment is consistent with the general intent,
purpose, policies and goals of the comprehensive plan, or addresses changed
conditions since the last time the comprehensive plan map was amended;
      2.   The proposed amendment does not adversely impact other aspects of
the Comprehensive Plan;
      3.   The accompanying zoning is consistent with the requested
comprehensive plan classification;
      4.   The information provided from the agencies having jurisdiction over
the public facilities needed for this site indicate that adequate public
facilities and services can be, or are expected to be provided, to serve any
and all uses allowed on this property under the accompanying zone;
      5.   The request has met compliance with all public notice and hearing
requirements of the City Code and Idaho Code.
      6.   The amendment will result in the long-term physical, natural,
economic, and/or social benefits to the community and is in the best interest
of the community. (Ord. 1451, 12-13-1977; Ord. 1746, 6-29-1987; Ord. 1988, 5-
17-1993; Ord. 2023, 2-22-1994; Ord. 2747, 5-19-2008; Ord. 2805, 11-2-2009; Ord.
2865, 6-20-2011; Ord. 3576, 3-19-2024; Ord. 3642, 1-21-2025)
10-03-04 SPECIAL USE PERMITS:
   (1)   Purpose:
      A.   Establish procedures through which a special use permit may be
applied for, terms under which it may be approved, amended, denied, or revoked,
and the appeal process if denied.
   (2)   General Provisions:
      A.   Uses which require the granting of a special use permit are deemed
to possess characteristics that require review and appraisal by the commission
to determine the following: Whether or not the use would cause any damage,
hazard, nuisance or other detriment to persons or properties in the vicinity.
      B.   A special use permit may be granted if the proposed use is
conditionally permitted by the terms of the ordinance and subject to conditions
pursuant to specific provisions of the ordinance; the ability of political
subdivisions, including school districts, to provide services for the proposed
use; and, if it is not in conflict with the comprehensive plan.
      C.   A special use permit shall not be considered as establishing a
binding precedent to grant other special use permits.
      D.   Denial of a special use permit or approval of a special use permit
with conditions unacceptable to the applicant may be subject to the regulatory
takings analysis provided for by section 67-8003, Idaho Code, consistent with
requirements established thereby.
      E.   If a Special Use Permit is required to establish a new use following
previous entitlement approvals, the Special Use Permit may be required to be
approved by City Council if the proposed use and development plan are found to
be a significant deviation from previous approvals and/or deviate significantly
from the original public hearing discussion.
      F.   A reduction in the required setbacks of a zone, or an increase in
maximum height allowed by a zone may be permitted with the approval of a
special use permit, only where specifically stated within the code. All other
setback reductions or increase in height shall follow the variance or planned
unit development process.
   (3)   Application Process:
      A.   Neighborhood Meeting, Required. Any person seeking a special use
permit shall first conduct a neighborhood meeting in accordance with
10-03-12 of this chapter.
      B.   Any person seeking a special use permit shall file a completed
application, checklist, and all appropriate fees, with Planning and Zoning on
forms prescribed by the Department, accompanied by such data and information
necessary to assure the fullest presentation of facts, as determined by the
Director. The Director shall have the authority to require any additional
information or data necessary to aid in understanding and reviewing the
request.
      C.   The applicable fees, as set forth by council, shall be paid at the
time of submittal of the application.
      D.   Prior to the public hearing and/or granting of a special use permit,
studies may be required of the social, economic, fiscal, and environmental
effects of the proposed special use.
   (4)   Public Notice and Hearing Process: The commission and city council
shall conduct the public notice and hearings in accordance with the procedures
set forth in
10-03-12 of this chapter, and pursuant to the notice and hearing procedures
provided in section 67-6509, Idaho Code.
   (5)   Commission Consideration and Decision: The commission, prior to
approving or denying a special use permit, or prior to recommending approval or
denial of a special use permit to the Council, shall conduct at least one
public hearing in which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be
heard.
      A.   The commission, prior to approving a special use permit request,
shall find and conclude the requests have met the criteria identified within
subsection (7) of this section, and shall make the express findings of such.
      B.   In addition to the express findings required, whenever the
commission grants or denies an application, it shall specify:
         1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
         2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
         3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain
approval.
   (6)   Special Use Permit; City Council Approval Required: Special use
permits requiring city council approval, may be approved or denied only after a
public hearing has been held in relation thereto before the council, in which
interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard.
      A.   The city council, prior to approving any special use permit request,
shall find and conclude the requests have met the criteria identified within
subsection (7) of this section, and shall make the express findings of such.
      B.   In addition to the express findings required, whenever the city
council grants or denies an application, it shall specify:
         1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
         2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
         3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain
approval.
   (7)   Required Findings for Approval of a Special Use Permit:
      A.   In the course of approving of any such request, the commission or
city council, as applicable, must find and conclude that:
         1.   That the site is large enough to accommodate the proposed use and
meet all the dimensional and development regulations in the district in which
the use is located.
         2.   That the proposed use will be harmonious with the Caldwell
Comprehensive Plan and in accord with the requirements of this chapter.
         3.   That the design, construction, operation and maintenance will be
compatible with other uses in the general neighborhood and with the existing or
intended character of the general vicinity and that such use will not adversely
change the essential character of the same area.
         4.   That the proposed use, if it complies with all conditions of the
approval imposed, will not adversely affect other property in the vicinity.
         5.   That the proposed use will be served adequately by essential
public facilities and services such as highways, streets, schools, parks,
police and fire protection, drainage structures, refuse disposal, water, and
sewer.
         6.   That the proposed use will not create excessive additional costs
for public facilities and services and will not be detrimental to the economic
welfare of the community.
         7.   That the proposed use will not involve activities or processes,
materials, equipment, and conditions of operation that will be detrimental to
any persons, property or the general welfare by reason of excessive production
of noise, smoke, fumes, glare or odors.
         8.   That the proposed use will not result in the destruction, loss or
damage of a natural, scenic or historic feature considered to be of major
importance on the site in which the special use will take place.
   (8)   Conditions Of Approval: Upon the granting of a special use permit,
conditions may be attached to a special use permit including, but not limited
to, the following:
      A.   Items that will minimize the adverse impact on other developments or
property;
      B.   Controlling the sequence and timing of development or use;
      C.   Controlling the duration of the use;
      D.   Assuring that the use and property in which the use is located is
maintained properly;
      E.   Designating the exact location and nature of the use and property
development;
      F.   Requiring the provision for on site or off-site public facilities or
services;
      G.   Requiring more restrictive standards than those generally required
in city code; and
      H.   Requiring mitigation of adverse effects of the proposed use upon
service delivery by any political subdivision, including school districts,
providing services within the planning jurisdiction.
      I.   Approval of a Special Use Permit may be tied to the land or to a
specific business or applicant.
   (9)   Time Limitations and Extensions:
      A.   The applicant shall commence the use as permitted in accord with the
conditions of approval, satisfy the requirements set forth in the conditions of
approval, and acquire building permits and commence construction of permanent
footings or structures on or in the ground within two (2) years from the date
of approval, otherwise the special use permit approval shall become null and
void.
         1.   Except that if the approved special use permit is part of an
annexation application, rezone application or preliminary plat application,
then the applicable permit/certificate application shall be submitted within
two (2) years of the date of signature of the order of decision showing
approval of the annexation, rezone, or preliminary plat.
         2.   Upon written request and filing by the applicant, prior to the
termination of the period in accordance with subsection (9)A of this section,
the director may authorize a single extension of time to commence the use not
to exceed one (1) two-year period. Additional time extensions up to two (2)
years as determined and approved by the director may be granted. With all
extensions, the director may require the special use to comply with the current
provisions of this chapter.
            (A)   If a special use is part of a preliminary plat that has been
given a time extension in accordance with
Chapter 11, the special use permit will automatically be extended with the
preliminary plat and will not require a separate extension.
         3.   Approval of requests for time extension to an approved special
use shall not be granted if any of the following conditions exist:
            (A)   Significant amendments to the comprehensive plan or City Code
have been adopted that change the basis under which the special use permit was
granted.
            (B)   Significant changes in land use have occurred in the area
that will impact or be impacted by the project.
            (C)   Hazardous conditions have developed or have been discovered
that will impact the project.
            (D)   Community facilities and services are no longer adequate to
serve the project.
   (10)   Transfers and Modifications:
      A.   Special use permits are an entitlement to the specific property on
which the approval was granted and upon property sale the entitlement transfers
to the new owner(s) without further application or approval, unless otherwise
conditioned as part of the original approval. Any new owner(s) shall be bound
by the same time limits and conditions of approval as the original special use
permit holder(s).
      B.   A special use permit is not transferable from one (1) property to
another.
      C.   The director may approve or deny specified minor modifications,
provided (1) Such modifications were not the subject of review during the
original public hearing and will not adversely impact adjacent properties, (2)
All conditions of approval of the original special use permit approval are met,
and (3) All appropriate permit(s) are obtained. Such minor modifications
include, but are not limited to, the following:
         1.   Minor relocation of dwelling units or building pads for practical
reasons such as road alignment, topography, or access.
         2.   Minor changes to the landscape area or open space design, but not
elimination or reduction in area.
         3.   An increase in building square footage, not exceeding twenty (20)
percent, provided that all parking and landscaping requirements are met.
      D.   All other modifications shall be considered by the planning and
zoning commission at a public hearing. The commission may modify the
conditions, limitations and/or scope of the permit, in accordance with the
limitations and requirements of subsection (5) A of this section.
   (11)   Annual Inspections: Special use permits, including those in existence
prior to and upon the effective date hereof shall be subject to annual
inspections for continued compliance with the conditions of approval and all
other city laws, ordinances, and statutes. Inspections shall take place by
planning and zoning, fire, and/or building.
   (12)   Revoking Special Use Permits:
      A.   Special use permits may be revoked at any time, by the planning and
zoning director if it is determined that any condition of the approved special
use permit or any other city laws, ordinances or statutes are being violated.
      B.   Prior to any revocation, the applicant shall be afforded thirty (30)
days after the date of notification of noncompliance/intent to revoke to become
compliant. Additionally, prior to any revocation, the applicant shall be
afforded an opportunity for a hearing before the council; said hearing must be
requested within seven (7) calendar days of receipt of a notice of intent to
revoke the special use permit.
      C.   Failure to come into compliance within thirty (30) days of the
notification of noncompliance/intent to revoke and failure to request such a
hearing shall result in immediate revocation of the special use permit.
   (13)   Appeals:
      A.   The applicant or any affected person having an interest in real
property within a five-hundred-foot (500') radius of the exterior boundaries of
the subject property may appeal the decision of the commission, or any
condition of approval of the special use permit, in accordance with Section
10-03-12 of this chapter. (Ord. 2739, 6-16-2008; amd. Ord. 2865, 6-20-2011;
Ord. 3010, 11-16-2015; Ord. 3578, 3-19-2024; Ord. 3642, 1-21-2025; Ord. 3663,
4-21-2025)
10-03-05 VARIANCES:
   (1)   Variance Defined: A variance is a modification of the bulk and
placement requirements of the zoning ordinance as to one or more of the
following items only:
      A.   Minimum lot area (square feet);
      B.   Minimum lot width;
      C.   Minimum lot frontage;
      D.   Minimum front yard setback;
      E.   Minimum rear yard setback;
      F.   Minimum interior side yard setback;
      G.   Minimum street side yard setback;
      H.   Maximum building height;
      I.   Minimum required parking spaces;
      J.   Any other zoning ordinance provision affecting the size or shape of
a structure or building or the placement of a structure or building upon a lot,
or the size of lots.
   (2)   Application Process for A Variance:
      A.   Any person seeking a variance shall file a completed application,
checklist, and all appropriate fees, with Planning and Zoning on forms
prescribed by the Department, accompanied by such data and information
necessary to assure the fullest presentation of facts, as determined by the
Director. The Director shall have the authority to require any additional
information or data necessary to aid in understanding and reviewing the
request.
      B.   The applicable fees, as set forth by council, shall be paid at the
time of submittal of the application.
      C.   A neighborhood meeting shall be held as per section
10-03-12 of this article.
   (3)   Hearing Process for A Variance:
      A.   Public notice and hearings shall be in accordance with the
procedures set forth in
10-03-12 of this chapter, and pursuant to the notice and hearing procedures
provided in section 67-6509, Idaho Code.
   (4)   Required Findings for Granting a Variance:
      A.   In the course of approving of any such request, the commission, must
find and conclude that:
         1.   There has been a showing of undue hardship because of
characteristics of the site which are either:
            (A)   Size, location, configuration, or dimensions of the site; or
            (B)   Topographic or other physical site conditions which render
the site unique from adjoining properties.
         2.   Granting of the variance does not constitute a right or special
privilege by the applicant.
         3.   Granting of the variance is not in conflict with the public
interest.
         4.   Granting of the variance will not be injurious to the property or
improvements of adjacent property owners or interfere with the enjoyment of
such property or improvements thereon.
         5.   Granting of the variance will not be materially detrimental to
the public health, safety, or welfare.
      B.   Denial of a variance request or approval of a variance request with
conditions unacceptable to the applicant may be subject to the regulatory
taking analysis provided for by section 67-8003 of the Idaho Code, consistent
with the requirements established thereby.
   (5)   Appeal Process for A Variance:
      A.   The applicant or any property owner adjacent to the subject property
may appeal the decision of the commission, or any condition of approval of the
variance in accordance with the procedures set forth in
10-03-12 of this chapter. (Ord. 2739, 6-16-2008; amd. Ord. 3576, 3-19-2024;
Ord. 3642, 1-21-2025)
10-03-06 FEES:
   The Planning and Zoning Division charges a separate fee for each type of
land use application and review. All fees associated with land use
applications, permits, licenses, development reviews, verification letters and
reports, reconsiderations, appeals, and copies of documents are set by
resolution of the City Council.(Ord. 3576, 3-19-2024; amd. Ord. 3642, 1-21-
2025)
10-03-07 TRANSPORTATION POLICIES AND PRACTICES:
10-03-07-1 TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY REQUIREMENTS:
   Traffic impact study, intersection study, master plan policies, and related
transportation matters.
   (1)   Traffic Studies:
      A.   Requirements And General Information: Traffic studies will be
required in conjunction with private development when the traffic generated
exceeds certain development thresholds.
      B.   Development Studies: Traffic studies will be required for city
roadway or intersection improvement projects. These may vary from a simple one-
page study evaluating existing traffic volumes, accidents and physical
conditions. They can also be a complex analysis of existing and future levels
of service at several locations, on and off the project site, as well as
various possible development and public improvement project scenarios. They may
need to consider various roadway concept alternatives, alignments, modes of
travel and project enhancements.
      C.   Design And Project Studies: Traffic studies may be required for a
variety of issues. The city should be an active participant in the review of
those involving city roads to include those within the city’s impact area.
      D.   Scoping Of the Project: Where many unknown and alternate designs
exist for a project, a scoping study should precede the project design to
clearly define the project scope.
      E.   Traffic Impact Studies Criteria: The City of Caldwell must consider
the impacts of a proposed development on property and transportation
facilities. Therefore, a traffic impact study will be required if the proposed
development generates one hundred (100) or more peak hour vehicle trips; more
than thirty thousand (30,000) square feet of commercial use; or more than fifty
thousand (50,000) square feet of industrial use. Institutional reviews will be
required based upon the city’s experience with other like operations or from
information provided by other jurisdictions in this region. The city may
require an impact study, even if the aforementioned criteria are not exceeded
to resolve unique circumstances. The city may also waive the requirement if, in
the city’s opinion, there are no traffic issues to resolve.
         The type of land use and the trips generated will be determined using
the Institute of Transportation Engineers’ (ITE) publication: “Trip Generation
- An Information Report”.
         Typical uses within the commercial, industrial and institutional
categories include (but are not limited to):
         Commercial Category:
            Business park.
            Indoor theater.
            Office building.
            Restaurant.
            Retail store.
            Shopping center.
            Supermarket.
            Industrial Category:
            Heavy industry.
            Industrial park.
            Light industrial.
            Manufacturing.
            Truck/bus terminal.
            Utility plant.
            Warehousing.
         Institutional Category:
            College/university.
            Hospital/nursing home.
            Library.
            Military base.
            Place of worship.
            Prison.
            School.
         The term “dwelling units” used in this policy includes units
associated with hotels, motels and private homes or apartments. The city will
consider proposed developments of other types not listed above and decide the
need for a traffic impact study on a case-by-case basis.
         The developer of a proposed large-scale development should review the
project with the City Engineering staff before submitting a preliminary plat
application.
         The city will decide at that time whether a traffic impact study will
be required and set the study parameters. The impact study area shall include
all roadways and intersections directly joining the proposed development. It
shall include other roadways and intersections that the City believes are
affected by traffic generated by the proposed development.
   (2)   Traffic Impact Considerations:
      A.   The traffic impact study shall identify and consider:
         1.   The continuation of local residential streets, collector streets
and arterial streets. The study shall cover streets from the development
boundaries, to an intersection with existing or proposed residential, collector
or arterial streets as shown on the latest edition of the “Canyon County
Functionally Classified Road Map”.
         2.   Existing land use, roadways, traffic patterns and roadway volume,
and turning movement volume within the study area. The study must consider
average daily traffic and traffic during at least two (2) representative peak
hours.
         3.   Existing levels of service within the study area. This will be
determined using the latest edition of the “Highway Capacity Manual” (HCM) and
existing traffic control devices.
         4.   Planned road improvements and major land developments within the
study area.
         5.   Forecasts of future traffic patterns, roadway capacity and
turning movements in the study area before the proposed development is built.
This establishes “background traffic”. Traffic patterns and roadway capacity
shall be forecast for the built out year and for a twenty (20) year planning
period. Turning movements shall be forecast for the built out year. Traffic
forecasts by COMPASS should be used, when available. Those forecasts shall be
checked for credibility and reconciled with independent forecasts. The study
should include a reasonable rate of regional traffic growth. It should estimate
additional traffic likely to be generated by vacant land development in and
surrounding the area. The basis of development projections will be current
zoning, prepared with advice from staff.
         6.   Trip generation and distribution expected from the proposed
development; this is “site traffic”.
         7.   Forecast of future traffic patterns, roadway capacity volumes,
and turning movements in the study area after the proposed development is fully
built and occupied. These numbers are “site traffic” plus “background traffic”.
         8.   Future levels of service in the study area, with “site traffic”
plus “background traffic”. Forecast levels of service for roadway links and
impacted intersections at the development build out year and twenty (20) years
from the present. Identify all roadway/intersections configurations and traffic
control devices.
         9.   Recommended roadway/pathway improvements and mitigation measures.
This includes location and design of driveways, intersections and traffic
control devices. Include potentially viable non-roadway measures, such as
ridesharing, transit, bicycling incentives and staggered or flexible work
hours.
         10.   School crossings, safe routes to school and bikeways.
         11.   Roadway access control that differs from the city’s general
requirements. Show exceptions where there are special conditions such as
unusually heavy turn storage requirements, high speeds and high traffic
volumes.
         12.   The effects of the traffic from the proposed development on
existing local streets and the effects of traffic from existing local streets
on the proposed development.
   (3)   Average Daily Traffic (ADT): The evaluator needs to estimate ADT for
all street segments in the proposed development likely to have volumes
exceeding one thousand (1,000) vehicles per day. These estimates will help
select the proper street cross section for each segment. Each proposed
collector street should be broken into several segments. The evaluator will
base this on key intersections in the proposed street network. That will reduce
the length of collector width streets required and define the extent of
collector traffic levels in the development. The evaluator will compare project
volumes on streets that provide access to the development with the applicable
threshold volumes. The evaluator should use the Caldwell subdivision ordinance
and adopted planning thresholds for reference purposes.
   (4)   Trip Generation Rates: Trip generation rates used in the impact study
shall be supported by appropriate data presented in the latest edition of the
publication, “Trip Generation Manual”. Other studies recognized by the traffic
engineering profession may be used for analysis purposes. Those conducting
impact studies should consult ITE’s “Traffic Access And Impact Studies For Site
Development” (a recommended practice 1991), and the federal highway
administration’s, “Site Impact Traffic Evaluation (SITE) Handbook” report
number FHWA/PL/85/004, January 1985, or the most recent publication update.
   (5)   Preparation Of Traffic Impact Study: The applicant shall pay for a
traffic impact study commissioned by the city. A qualified professional shall
prepare the traffic impact study. The city shall approve the professional who
will do the study before the work begins. The city engineer or designated staff
member will confirm the qualifications of the proposed professional. The
qualified professional will serve as the city’s primary contact during the
study.
   (6)   Study Boundaries: The boundary of the study area shall be identified
jointly by the professional conducting the study and city staff.
   (7)   Joint Traffic Study: The city may participate or require the
participation of others in a joint traffic study when there is a need to
evaluate some traffic component that has wider application than the proposal at
hand. The joint traffic study will include the elements of the traffic impact
study area required of the development. The developer will pay a negotiated
portion of the study.
   (8)   Master Plans: Developments that are to be platted in multiple phases
may require a master plan. The master plan shall address broad community
development, street network issues and all the elements required in a traffic
impact study. If all of the phases of the proposed development exceed the
threshold requirements, the developer may be required to update the traffic
study when future phases of the project are submitted or in the city’s opinion,
conditions in the area have changed significantly, or if the future phases
deviate significantly from the approved master plan.
   (9)   Traffic Signal Warrants: The traffic signal warrants from the MUTCD
should be used as guidelines to consider the need for a traffic signal at a
location. Other features should be considered such as traffic circulation
patterns; spacing with respect to other controls; and the physical
characteristics of the intersection (such as the horizontal and vertical
curvature). If either the total volume warrant or the volume interruption
warrant are satisfied, it will not be necessary to check warrants 8 through 11
which are primarily special volume warrants. The evaluator should give special
consideration to locations that satisfy the school crossing warrant or the
accident warrant.
   (10)   Level Of Service: Traffic conditions will be measured according to
present and forecasted level of service (LOS) for roadways relative to their
functional classification. Level of service is a measure of the congestion
level on a street in an urban setting; it is typically measured at
intersections. Functional classifications refer to the transportation
distribution characteristics of a roadway. Planning volume thresholds are the
twenty-four (24) hour equivalents of what the typical intersection levels of
services are expected to be along a street based on its number of lanes and
functional classification. Planning thresholds are based on typical
intersection conflicts and intersection designs.
      An arterial street that has the same number of lanes as a collector
street carries more traffic than the collector because it is assumed to receive
sixty percent (60%) more green time as compared to forty percent (40%) green
time for collectors. Planning volume thresholds are used to determine the
needed street section based on future traffic forecasts. Traffic forecasts are
generated from a computer traffic model, which simulates the trips generated by
future land use types, densities and locations routed on an assumed roadway
network.
   (11)   Functional Street Classification: Urban and rural street
classification maps are prepared by COMPASS and adopted by its member agencies,
including the city of Caldwell. The maps depict the current local, collector
and arterial street designations. Several future and arterial streets are shown
on the maps. Not all future collector and arterial streets are indicated. The
city reserves the right to designate future collector streets or upgrade
existing streets as conditions and projections warrant. The functional street
classification map will be relied upon to determine a development’s level of
participation in transportation improvement matters based upon the
development’s anticipated impact on the road system. (Ord. 2506, 7-6-2004)
   (12)   Traffic Impact Mitigation: The applicant shall be responsible for
assuming a proportionate share of the design, construction, installation and
inspections associated with remediating the traffic impacts identified by the
study and/or as identified by the city engineer in his/her review and analysis
of the proposed development and surrounding traffic patterns. Traffic impact
mitigation shall be addressed according to the time frame identified in the
traffic study and/or as identified by the city engineer and shall be required
for any development that is estimated to exceed five hundred (500) vehicle
trips per day, regardless of whether a traffic impact study has been conducted
or not. If a traffic impact study has not been conducted, the vehicle trips per
day for a development shall be estimated using the most current edition of the
ITE “Trip Generation” handbook. The applicant may be allowed, at his/her
option, to contribute monies in lieu of construction, but the basis for the
obligation is for construction. Monetary contributions must be made at a level
commensurate with costs to construct the same by the city and as estimated by
the city. The alternate provision for payment of money is not a requirement, is
for the benefit and convenience of the applicant only and does not constitute
an impact fee. If the traffic mitigation should be deferred the applicant shall
deposit funds in the roadway trust fund, sufficient to cover the determined
proportional traffic impact cost. (Ord. 3663, 4-21-2025)
10-03-07-2 APPEALS:
   (1)   Any party aggrieved by a decision of the City Engineer or Public Works
Director in administering traffic study guidelines provided for herein may
appeal said decision to the City Council by filing a written notice of such
appeal with the City Clerk within ten (10) days of the date of such decision.
   (2)   Appeals to the City Council shall be processed as contested case
pursuant to Caldwell City Code Section
10-03-12. (Ord. 3663, 4-21-2025)
10-03-08 SEVERABILITY:
   If any provisions of this chapter or the application thereof to any persons
or circumstances are held invalid, the remainder of the chapter or the
application of provisions to other persons or circumstances shall not be
affected thereby. (Ord. 1451, 12-13-1977)
10-03-09 CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS AND REPEALER:
   It is not intended by this chapter to impair or interfere with other
regulations of State or local law, or with private restrictions on the use of
land, improvements and structures. Where this chapter imposes greater
restriction than that imposed by other law or private restrictions, this
chapter shall prevail. All other ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict
herewith are hereby repealed upon the effective date of this chapter. (Ord.
1451, 12-13-1977)
10-03-10 VIOLATION, PENALTIES, AND ENFORCEMENT:
   (1)   Powers and Duties of Enforcing Officers.
      A.   Scope: This section provides for an administrative remedy for any
violation of this chapter, chapters
11,
12 and/or
13 of this code, including continuing violations related to any provisions of
this chapter (chapter 10), chapters
11,
12 and/or
13 of this code.
      B.   The planning director, and his/her duly authorized designee, shall
have the right to enter upon any land during the daytime in the course of his
duties, and, if approached by the property owner or lessor shall show proper
identification and give that individual notice as to the purpose of the visit.
The director or his/her designee may enter in any building upon being invited
by an owner or tenant and may enter a structure closed to them by will of an
owner or occupant or through absence of the same upon obtaining an
administrative search warrant. They may seek accompaniment, as may be approved
by a judge to have other enforcement agency representatives accompany them.
   (2)   Violations and Penalties:
      A.   This remedy may be exercised in place of, or in addition to, any
other administrative, criminal, civil, or equitable remedy allowed by law.
      B.   Authority. In any case where any building or structure is erected,
constructed, reconstructed, altered, converted or maintained or any building,
structure or land is used in violation of this title, as determined by the
planning director, his/her designee or a code compliance officer or otherwise
other proper legal authorities of the city, that authority may institute any
appropriate action or proceedings to prevent such unlawful erection,
construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance or use, to
restrain, correct or abate such violation, to prevent the occupancy or use of
said building, structure, or land, or to prevent any illegal act, conduct,
business or use in or about such building, structure or land. In exercising
enforcement authority, the city representative shall follow any specific
remedial/enforcement sections listed in relevant chapters of this title or, in
their absence, adhere to the provisions of this section specifically.
      C.   Notice of Violation: Upon the awareness of any violation of any of
the provisions of this title the planning director, his/her designee, or, a
code compliance officer shall serve notice of such violation on the person
committing or permitting the same, or if neither is to be found within the
city, by mailing a copy to the responsible person or his/her agent at his/her
last known address, by regular mail. and if such violation has not ceased
within such reasonable length of time as the planning director, or his/her
designee, or, a code compliance officer may determine, he/she will take action
as may be necessary to terminate the violation as specified below. Failure to
receive any notice does not affect the validity of the proceedings conducted
under this section.
      D.   Corrective action: If such violation has not ceased within such
reasonable length of time as the planning director, or, his/her designee, or a
code compliance officer may determine, then the planning director, or his/her
designee or a code compliance officer shall take such action as may be
necessary to terminate the violation. This may infer initial issuance of a
citation, solicitation of assistance from other local authorities, abatement of
a nuisance, posting of some type of cease and desist or stop work order,
withholding a certificate of occupancy or building permit, etc., or pursuit of
legal remedies.
      E.   Penalties: Any person or corporation, whether owner, lessee,
principal agent, employee or otherwise, who violates any of the provisions of
this chapter or permits any such violation or fails to comply with any of the
requirements approved under this chapter shall be subject to fine and/or
imprisonment up to, but not exceeding, the maximum penalties set forth in Idaho
Code section 50-302, as amended. Either or both such fine and imprisonment may
be imposed. Each day’s continued violation shall constitute a separate
additional violation.
   (3)   Administrative Citation Process:
      A.   Scope: This section provides for an administrative remedy for any
violation of this chapter, chapters
11,
12 and/or
13 of this code, including continuing violations related to any provisions of
this chapter, chapters
11,
12 and/or
13 of this code. This remedy may be exercised in place of, or in addition to,
any other administrative, criminal, civil, or equitable remedy allowed by law.
(Ord. 2789, 10-5-2009)
         1.   Procedure For Service:
            (A)   Unless otherwise provided, service of the first violation
warning that is required by this section may be made by delivery of a copy to
the responsible person or his/her agent, or if neither is to be found within
the city, by mailing a copy to the responsible person or his/her agent at his/
her last known address, by regular mail. Service by mail shall be deemed
complete upon mailing. The citing official must, in writing in the case file
along with his/her signature, declare the date of mailing or delivery. Failure
to receive any notice does not affect the validity of the proceedings conducted
under this section.
            (B)   Unless otherwise provided, service of any other document or
notice required by this section, other than the first violation warning, may be
made by delivery of a copy to the responsible person or his/her agent, or if
neither is to be found within the city, by certified mail. Service by certified
mail shall be deemed complete upon mailing. The citing official must, in
writing in the case file along with his/her signature, declare the date of
mailing or delivery, together with the acknowledgment of receipt, signed by the
responsible person or his/her agent, if one is obtained. Failure to receive any
notice does not affect the validity of the proceedings conducted under this
section.
   (3)   Definitions: See section
10-01-10 of this chapter for definitions.
      A.   Responsibility Of Cited Party: Upon service of a violation warning,
the responsible person shall comply with said warning to remedy the violation
within the time specified. Upon service of an administrative citation, the
responsible person shall pay the assessed fines and remedy the violation.
      B.   Content Of Violation Warning: A violation warning shall contain all
of the following information:
         1.   The location of the violation and the date the violation was
first detected. The date of service of the first violation warning, as set
forth in subsection (3)D1 of this section, shall be deemed to be the date the
violation was first detected, for purposes of this section.
         2.   The city code section violated and a description of the
violation.
         3.   The action required to correct the violation and the date by
which such action must be completed.
         4.   The consequences of failing to correct the violation, except for
the first violation warning which shall not contain the consequences.
         5.   The name and signature of the citing official.
      D.   Violation Warnings:
         1.   A first violation warning shall be issued for all code violations
and shall ordinarily provide ten (10) days to correct the violation. At the
discretion of the citing official and based on immediate dangers to health or
safety, a shorter time for correction may be set forth in the first violation
warning.
         2.   A second violation warning, identified as “second notice”, shall
be issued for all code violations in the event the first violation warning goes
unheeded and the code violations remain at the end of the time frame given in
the first violation warning to correct said code violations. The second
violation warning shall give a minimum of ten (10) days to correct the
violation. Maximum time to correct the violation shall be at the discretion of
the citing official and shall be based in part on any immediate dangers to
health or safety.
         3.   A final violation warning, identified as “final notice”, shall be
issued for all code violations in the event the first violation warning and the
second violation warnings go unheeded and the code violations remain at the end
of time frame given in the second violation warning to correct said code
violations. The final violation warning shall give a minimum of five (5) days
to correct the violation. Maximum time to correct the violation shall be at the
discretion of the citing official and shall be based in part on any immediate
dangers to health or safety. The final violation warning shall list the amount
of the fine that will be imposed if there is no compliance with said final
violation warning.
      E.   Violation Warning Satisfied: If the citing official determines that
all violations specified in the violation warning have been corrected within
the time set forth in the violation warning, no further action under this
section shall be taken against the responsible person regarding the violations.
      F.   Failure To Comply With Violation Warning: If the responsible person
fails to fully comply with the final violation warning within the time
specified, the citing official may issue an administrative citation as provided
in this section. The issuance of the administrative citation does not alleviate
or negate the responsible person’s obligation to fully comply with the
violation warning.
      G.   Content Of Administrative Citation: An administrative citation shall
contain all of the following information:
         1.   The location of the violation and the date the violation was
first detected. The date of service of the first violation warning, as set
forth in subsection (5)E1 of this section, shall be deemed to be the date the
violation was first detected, for purposes of this section. (Ord. 2958, 3-3-
2014)
         2.   The code section violated and a description of the violation.
         3.   An outline of the violation warnings issued, and the time frames
given within said violation warnings.
         4.   The amount of the fine imposed for the violation as well as the
time frame within which said fine shall be paid and place of payment for said
fine.
         5.   An order prohibiting another occurrence of the code violation.
         6.   A description of the administrative citation review process,
including the time within which to contest the administrative citation and the
place from which to obtain an administrative hearing request form to contest
the administrative citation.
         7.   The name and signature of the citing official.
      H.   Administrative Fines:
         1.   For any violation of this chapter the administrative fine shall
be twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per day for each day’s continued violation for
a first violation with a maximum fine amount of three hundred dollars
($300.00); fifty dollars ($50.00) per day for each day’s continued violation
for a second violation with a maximum fine amount of four hundred dollars
($400.00); and one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day for each day’s continued
violation for a third violation for a maximum fine amount of six hundred
dollars ($600.00) as well as for additional violations occurring within a
twelve (12) month period. The fines imposed thereafter may be set forth in a
resolution adopted by the city council.
         2.   Because a new and separate offense occurs under section
10-01-09 of this chapter each day during which a violation of any provision or
requirement of this code is committed, continued, or permitted, the citing
official shall assess fines according to the schedule set forth in subsection
(9)A of this section for each day from the date for which compliance was
directed in the first violation warning until the date the violation is fully
corrected as determined by the citing official or until the maximum fine amount
is reached, whichever comes first.
         3.   Administrative fines assessed for failing to fully comply with
violation warning or administrative citation is a debt owed to the city.
      I.   Payment Of Administrative Fine: The administrative fine shall be
paid to the planning and zoning department within thirty (30) days from the
date of service of the administrative citation. If, after a hearing requested
pursuant to subsection (11) of this section, the hearing officer determines
that the administrative citation should be canceled, the administrative fine
shall be refunded.
      J.   Request For Administrative Hearing:
      1.   Any responsible person to whom an administrative citation is issued
may contest the citation by:
            (A)   Completing an administrative hearing request form and
returning it to the planning and zoning department;
            (B)   Providing a complete and current mailing address for service
of papers, including notices on the responsible party, by mail; and
            (C)   Depositing the administrative fine with the planning and
zoning department.
         2.   The planning and zoning department must receive a completed
administrative hearing request form and the administrative fine within thirty
(30) days from the date of service of the administrative citation. If both
items are not received within the required time frame, the responsible person
waives the right to a hearing.
         3.   The citing official shall serve notice on the person requesting
the hearing of the time and place of the hearing at least seven (7) days before
the date of the hearing. The citing official shall serve any documentation,
other than the administrative citation, that the citing official has submitted
or will submit to the hearing officer on the person requesting the hearing at
least five (5) days before the date of the hearing. Service shall be in
accordance with subsection (2) of this section.
      K.   Time For Administrative Hearing: Only after an administrative
hearing request form is received by the planning and zoning department within
the required period and the responsible person requesting the hearing has
deposited the administrative fine in full, shall the city set the date and time
for the administrative hearing. The hearing shall be set for a date not less
than fifteen (15) days, but no more than sixty (60) days, after the date of
filing the administrative hearing request form.
      L.    Request For Continuance Of Hearing: The responsible person
requesting a hearing may request one continuance, which shall be granted if
deemed reasonable by the city. The city may also continue the hearing at its
own discretion.
      M.   Appointment Of Administrative Hearing Officer: The planning and
zoning director or his/her authorized designee shall select an administrative
hearing officer. The city council shall approve said selection and appoint the
administrative hearing officer. Administrative hearing officers shall be
selected in a manner that avoids the potential for financial, economic or other
bias. In no event shall the administrative hearing officer be the citing
official. The compensation, if any, of the administrative hearing officer shall
be paid by the city. Compensation shall not be directly or indirectly
conditioned upon whether or not administrative citations are upheld by the
administrative hearing officer.
      N.   Procedures At Administrative Hearing: Administrative hearings are
not public hearings and are informal. Formal rules of evidence and discovery do
not apply. Each party shall have the opportunity to present evidence in support
of that party’s case and to cross examine witnesses. The city bears the burden
of proof at an administrative hearing to establish a violation of this chapter,
chapters
11,
12 and/or
13 of this code. The administrative citation and any additional reports
submitted by the citing official shall constitute evidence of the facts
contained in those documents. The administrative hearing officer must use
preponderance of evidence as the standard of review in deciding the issues.
      O.   Failure To Attend Administrative Hearing: If the responsible person
fails to attend the scheduled hearing, the hearing will proceed without the
responsible person, and the responsible person shall be deemed to have waived
the right to an administrative hearing.
      P.   Decision Of Administrative Hearing Officer:
         1.   Issuance Of Decision: No later than fifteen (15) days after the
date on which the administrative hearing concludes, the administrative hearing
officer shall issue a written decision. The decision shall set forth the
reasons for the decision along with notice of the right to appeal, said appeal
process outlined in subsection
10-03-04(9) of this article.
         2.   Administrative Citation: The administrative hearing officer shall
issue a written decision to uphold or cancel the administrative citation. If
the administrative hearing officer upholds the administrative citation, the
city shall retain the fine deposited by the responsible person. If the
administrative hearing officer upholds the administrative citation and the fine
has not been deposited because advance deposit has been waived by the city on
the grounds of hardship or otherwise, the administrative hearing officer shall
specify in the decision a payment schedule for the fine. If the administrative
hearing officer cancels the administrative citation, any fine deposited with
the city shall be refunded.
         3.   Administrative Order: With regard to the administrative hearing
officer’s decision, it shall be entitled “administrative order”. The
administrative hearing officer shall make findings within the administrative
order regarding the existence of the violation(s) specified in the violation
warnings and administrative citation, and regarding whether the responsible
person took the required corrective action within the time period set forth in
the violation warnings. If the administrative hearing officer concludes that
the violation continues to exist, the administrative order shall set forth a
schedule for correction. The administrative order shall set a deadline for
compliance with its terms in the event that the responsible person fails to
file an appeal. If the administrative hearing officer determines that the
violation(s) set forth in the violation warning did not exist, or that the
violation(s) was (were) timely corrected, all proceedings regarding the
violation(s) shall immediately cease and the administrative citations shall be
canceled. If the administrative hearing officer cancels the administrative
citation, any fine deposited with the city shall be refunded.
         4.   Administrative Costs: The administrative hearing officer may
assess against the responsible person administrative costs for any violation
found to exist, or for any violation that was not timely corrected. The
administrative costs include any and all costs incurred by the city in
connection with administrative hearings pertaining to the violation, including,
but not limited to, investigation costs, staffing costs for preparing and
conducting the administrative hearing, and costs for all inspections necessary
to enforce the violation warning, administrative citation and the
administrative order. The administrative order shall specify the date by which
the costs must be paid to the city.
      Q.   Administrative Hearing Application Fee: The city council shall by
resolution establish an application fee to be paid by the person seeking an
administrative appeal hearing.
      R.   Late Payment Charges: Any person who fails to pay to the city on or
before the due date any administrative fine imposed pursuant to the provisions
of this section shall be liable for the payment of late payment charges in the
amount of fifty percent (50%) of the administrative fine payable to the city
over and above the original fine. (Ord. 2789, 10-5-2009)
      S.   Failure To Comply With Administrative Order: Failure to comply with
an administrative order after it becomes final is a misdemeanor. Filing a
criminal misdemeanor action does not preclude the city from using any other
legal remedy available to gain compliance with the administrative order. (Ord.
3576, 3-19-2024)
10-03-11 DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS:
   (1)   Authority and Purpose: In accordance with the allowances made by state
law, a property owner or developer may request, or the city may require, that
an application for rezone or zoning map amendment be processed in conjunction
with the execution of a development agreement. Through such agreements, a
property owner or developer may agree to make written conditional commitments
concerning the use or development of a subject parcel in exchange for the
change of zoning requested. The purpose of such agreements shall be to allow
development that provides benefits for both the property owner or developer and
the city by providing a balance between the owner or developer’s desire for
certainty in the development process and the city’s desire for control of the
impacts of the project.
   (2)   Process:
      A.   Creation and Form. At a minimum, development agreements shall
include the following:
         1.   A legal description of the subject property;
         2.   A description of the uses permitted or conditionally permitted
through special use permit on the land, which may include conceptual site
plans, building elevations showing exterior building treatments and designs,
signage, landscaping and parking designs, and other pertinent exhibits;
         3.   Provisions for any reservation or dedication of land;
         4.   The duration of the agreement; and
         5.   The commitments or other terms of the agreement.
      B.   Commitments and Safeguards. The written commitments or conditions
exacted shall be specific and shall have a reasonable relation to the zoning
change approved. In addition, the following safeguards shall be applied:
         1.   A development agreement shall only be allowed in connection with
annexations or rezones.
         2.   A development agreement shall be binding on the owner of the
parcel, each subsequent owner and each other person acquiring an interest in
the parcel, unless otherwise modified, terminated, or expired.
         3.   A development agreement shall not prevent the city in subsequent
actions applicable to the property from applying new rules, regulations or
policies that do not conflict with commitments applicable to the property set
forth within any duly executed agreement.
         4.   If a commitment involves ongoing performance and the owner or
developer fails to comply with the commitment after completion of construction,
said failure may be dealt with by the city according to the violation and
penalty provisions of this chapter and for specific performance of the
development agreement, including attorney fees and costs associated with the
enforcement of the agreement.
         5.   When a commitment is required to be satisfied prior to completion
of construction and it is not so satisfied, construction shall be halted until
compliance is established.
         6.   The negotiation of a development agreement, and its signature by
the applicant and the owner, does not commit the council to the adoption of the
zoning map amendment; a zoning map amendment subject to a development
agreement, in turn, shall not be effective until such time as all parties have
signed the development agreement, and a notice of development agreement has
been recorded.
         7.   The establishment of a development agreement and the written
commitments contained therein in accordance with the provisions of this section
shall be deemed written consent for the city council to change the zoning of
the subject property to its prior designation upon failure to comply with the
conditions imposed by the agreement.
         8.   Conditional commitments made under such agreements are in
addition to the regulations provided for in the zoning district by ordinance
and are established to ensure compatibility of the resulting land use with the
surrounding area.
         9.   A written development agreement may include commitments for one
or more of the following purposes:
            (a)   To prohibit structures, or uses of land or structures, that
would adversely affect the surrounding neighborhood or conflict with the
comprehensive plan;
            (b)   To entertain allowing a specific use or uses of the parcel
for which the development agreement is sought, including uses in a zone not
normally allowed therein;
            (c)   To conform the zoning map amendment to the comprehensive
plan;
            (d)   To conform development under the zoning map amendment to
existing patterns of development in the surrounding neighborhood;
            (e)   To mitigate the adverse effects of development under the
zoning map amendment on the surrounding neighborhood and on public facilities
and services; or
            (f)   To narrow the permitted or specially permitted uses in the
zone.
            (g)   Limit residential density; or prohibit structures, or uses of
land or structures, otherwise permitted in a zone;
            (h)   Require compliance with a site plan and/or design standards
for structures and other site features;
            (i)   Require compliance with a site plan approved by the council
either in conjunction with the rezoning or under the procedures for a special
use;
               (j)   Require the construction and installation of improvements,
including public improvements; or
               (k)   Impose time limits for taking subsequent development
actions.
      C.   Recordation. Development agreements shall take effect and shall be
recorded by the city in the office of the county recorder upon the adoption of
the ordinance establishing the zoning map amendment by the city council.
      D.   Zoning Map Identification. A zoning action subject to a development
agreement shall be identified on the zoning map by the suffix “DA”, and the
number of the ordinance applying to the development agreement.
      E.   Development Agreement Expiration. Development agreements shall
expire within five (5) years if no development or improvements have begun on
the subject parcel(s), unless otherwise negotiated in the agreement, or an
request for an extension has been granted.
      F.   Modification, Enforcement, Extension, and Termination.
         1.   Modifications. A development agreement may be modified by request
of an applicant or the city only after an approving vote of the council after
complying with the notice and hearing provisions of this chapter. Modification
of and to an executed agreement shall be required by the planning director or
his/her designee under the following circumstances:
            (a)   A change to any of the terms or conditions of the original
development agreement is proposed;
            (b)   A substantial change to any established positioning of any
structure over 200 square feet in area is proposed;
            (c)   A substantial change to any approved parking or landscaping
area layout or arrangement is proposed;
            (d)   A substantial change to any approved set of building
elevations or exterior appearance or design is proposed;
            (e)   A substantial change to any of the approved land uses listed
within the development agreement; and/or
            (f)   A substantial change to any development agreement for signage
is proposed.
         2.   Enforcement. If a commitment involves ongoing performance and the
owner or developer fails to comply with the commitment after completion of
construction, said failure may be dealt with by the city according to the
violation and penalty provisions of this chapter and for specific performance
of the development agreement, including attorney fees and costs associated with
the enforcement of the agreement.
         3.   Extensions. The period of time for compliance of commitments may
be extended by the city for just cause, and upon application for such by the
owner, after complying with the notice and hearing provisions of this chapter.
In addition, the five-year expiration period may be extended by the city for
just cause, and upon application for such by the owner, after complying with
the notice and hearing provisions of this chapter.
         4.   Termination. A development agreement may be terminated by the
city, and the zoning designation upon which the use is based may be reversed
upon the following:
            (a)   Failure of the owner, developer or each subsequent owner or
person acquiring an interest in the subject parcel to comply with the
commitments in the agreement within two (2) years, and after complying with the
notice and hearing provisions of section 67-6509, Idaho Code.
            (b)   Failure of the owner, developer or each subsequent owner or
person acquiring an interest in the subject parcel to begin development or
improvements on the subject parcel within five (5) years, and after complying
with the notice and hearing provisions of section 67-6509, Idaho Code.
            (c)   Upon termination of the development agreement, the property
may revert to the zone applicable prior to the adoption of the development
agreement or application for zone change, or to the least intensive zoning
classification (low density residential) as deemed appropriate by the Planning
Director. If the zone reverts to the prior zone, all uses of the property which
are not consistent with the subsequently applied zone following termination of
the development agreement shall cease. The owner of the parcel may apply for a
special use of the parcel if such use is a specially permitted use within the
subsequently applied zone. (Ord. 2729, 5-5-2008; Ord. 2755, 9-22-2008; Ord.
2805, 11-2-2009; Ord. 2865, 6-20-2011; Ord. 2896, 4-2-2012; Ord. 2911, 9-4-
2012; Ord. 2946, 12-16-2013; Ord. 2967, 7-21-2014; Ord. 2982, 2-2-2015; Ord.
3010, 11-16-2015; Ord. 3065, 9-19-2016; Ord. 3102, 9-5-2017; Ord. 3156, 7-16-
2018; Ord. 3176, 11-5-2018; Ord. 3237, 10-7-2019; Ord. 3576, 3-19-2024)
10-03-12 PUBLIC HEARING PROCESS:
   (1)   Neighborhood Meetings: Applicants shall conduct a neighborhood meeting
for any of the following applications: special use permits, variances,
annexations, planned unit developments, preliminary plats, appeals,
comprehensive plan map amendments, and rezones.
      A.   It shall be the sole duty of the applicant to provide written notice
of a neighborhood meeting to all property owners or purchasers of record owning
property within five hundred feet (500') of the exterior boundary of the
subject property; except that in the case of variance applications only,
written notice of a neighborhood meeting only needs to be provided to property
owners immediately adjacent to the subject property.
      B.   Notice of a neighborhood meeting shall be in addition to, and not
combined with notices already required by this chapter, and shall include the
date, time, location and purpose of the meeting.
      C.   The purpose of the neighborhood meeting shall be to review the
proposed project and discuss neighborhood concerns, if any. The applicant/
developer shall provide and discuss the development plan, proposed land uses,
densities, and features of the proposed development. The applicant shall also
communicate the timing and logistics (phasing) of the project.
      D.   The meeting shall not be on a holiday, a holiday weekend, or the day
before a holiday or holiday weekend.
      E.   The meeting shall be held at one of the following locations:
         1.   On the subject property;
         2.   At a nearby available public meeting place including, but not
limited to, a fire station, library, school, or community center; or
         3.   An office space with suitable meeting facilities if such
facilities are within a one-mile radius of the nearest public meeting place.
      F.   The neighborhood meeting shall be conducted prior to the application
being accepted by the Planning and Zoning Department.
         1.   The subject application(s) shall be submitted within four (4)
months following the neighborhood meeting.
         2.   Notices of the neighborhood meeting shall be placed in the mail
at least fifteen (15) days prior to the date of the neighborhood meeting.
      G.   The neighborhood meeting form(s) shall be obtained from the planning
and zoning department and shall be completed and submitted to the planning and
zoning department along with the application submittal.
   (2)   Mailing And Publishing Of Public Hearing Notices: In accordance with
Idaho Code and this chapter, the following public notices shall be required
based on the type of land use application below.
      A.   Required notices for comprehensive plan, zoning ordinance, and
subdivision ordinance text enactments, amendments, and repeals.
         1.   Published Notice: At least fifteen (15) days prior to the
hearing, notice of the time and place and summary of the proposed amendment,
request or application to be discussed shall be published in the official
newspaper or paper of general circulation within the jurisdiction. The
commission notice shall also make be made available a notice to other papers,
radio and television stations serving the jurisdiction for use as a public
service announcement.
         2.   Public Agency Notifications: Notice shall be sent to all
political subdivisions providing services within the planning jurisdiction,
including school districts, at least fifteen (15) days prior to the public
hearing.
      B.   Required notices for annexations, comprehensive plan land use map
amendments, zoning ordinance map amendments, development agreements, special
use permits, variances, planned unit developments, and subdivision plats.
         1.   Published Notice: At least fifteen (15) days prior to the
hearing, notice of the time and place and summary of the proposed amendment,
request or application to be discussed shall be published in the official
newspaper or paper of general circulation within the jurisdiction. The
commission notice shall also make be made available a notice to other papers,
radio and television stations serving the jurisdiction for use as a public
service announcement.
         2.   Public Agency Notifications: Notice shall be sent to all
political subdivisions providing services within the planning jurisdiction,
including school districts, at least fifteen (15) days prior to the public
hearing.
         3.   Radius Notices: Notice shall be provided by mail to property
owners or purchasers of record within the land being considered; five hundred
feet (500') beyond the external boundaries of the land being considered; and
any additional area that may be impacted by the proposed application as
determined by the planning and zoning director. For variance applications, only
adjacent (including across streets and alleys) residents and property owners
need be notified.
         4.   Mass Notification Procedure: When notice is required to be given
to two hundred (200) or more property owners or purchasers of record, an
alternative form of procedure of official notice of the public hearing for both
the commission and council shall be that the public hearing notice shall be
published in the official newspaper or newspaper of general circulation in the
area two (2) consecutive times. Sufficient notice shall be deemed to have been
provided if the city provides notice through a display advertisement at least
four inches (4") by two (2) columns in size in the official newspaper of the
city at least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing date, in addition to site
posting on all external boundaries of the site.
   (3)   Physical Site Posting Of Public Hearing Notices:
      A.   Not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, the applicant
shall post a copy of the public hearing notice of the application on the
property under consideration. Except as noted herein, posting of the property
must be in substantial compliance with the following requirements:
         1.   Properties Or Land Less Than Two (2) Acres In Size: The applicant
shall post a sign consisting of one (1) eighteen inch by twenty four inch (18"
x 24") bright colored, laminated paper, or other similar material mounted to a
rigid surface of equal size and attached to metal or wood support posts.
Notices shall specify the name of the applicant, a statement concerning the
proposed development, and the date, time and location of the public hearing.
         2.   Properties Or Land Two Acres Or More In Size: The applicant shall
post a four foot by four foot (4' x 4') sign consisting of plywood or other
hard surface mounted on two (2) four inch by four inch (4" x 4") posts.
            Centered at the top of the four foot by four foot (4' x 4') sign
board(s) in six inch (6") letters shall be the words “Caldwell Public Hearing
Notice” and the date of the hearing. In addition, each sign shall include the
name of the applicant, the proposed development, the date, time, place of the
public hearing, the nature of the hearing, and a summary of the proposal to be
considered. Each sign shall be painted white and the letters shall be painted
black and shall appear on both sides. An example of this sign is listed below:
 
EXAMPLE:
The following is an example of a public hearing sign and the types of
information that needs to be displayed. Please ensure the correct date of your
meeting and the appropriate hearing body is listed on the sign.
 
CALDWELL PUBLIC
HEARING NOTICE                                - Size = six inch (6") letters
JANUARY 1, 2023
Planning and Zoning Commission 7:00 p.m. -    - Size = two inch (2") letters
Caldwell PD Community Room (110 South Fifth)
Annex and preliminary plat - your name
subdivision - for 288-unit multi-family
development with a propsed R-3 High Density   - Size = one inch (1.5")
Residential zoning.
APPLICATION BY: The applicant name(s)
Contact the City at 208-455-3021              - Size = two inch (2") letters
 
 
         3.   The Director may require larger sized posting(s) or multiple
notice(s) for applications that, in the reasonable discretion of the Director,
could result in significant adverse traffic, environmental, aesthetic, noise,
pollution, or population density impacts. Additionally, the Director may
require larger sized posting(s) or multiple notice(s) if, in the reasonable
discretion of the Director, the specific circumstances of the site and the
proposed development create a risk that the notice as provided will be
insufficient to alert the general public and adjacent owners to the proposed
development.
         4.   Sign Placement And Quantity:
            (A)   The notice(s) shall be posted perpendicularly along each
roadway, excluding Interstate 84, adjacent to the subject property boundaries.
The base of the notice shall be at least three feet (3') above the ground.
            (B)   If the property has roadway frontage of one thousand feet
(1,000') or more, a notice shall be placed at each end of the property roadway
frontage.
            (C)   Notice(s) shall be located on the property, with the notice
oriented to oncoming traffic, outside of the public right-of-way.
            (D)   If the sign cannot be placed on the property and still be
clearly visible, the sign may be placed within the right-of-way if consent of
the owner of the right-of-way can be obtained.
            (E)   In circumstances where placing signs per the standards listed
herein is not practical, the director may identify an alternative sign
placement strategy.
         5.   Proof Of Posting: A notarized statement, map depicting the
location(s) of the sign(s) and a photograph of the posting shall be provided to
the city no later than ten (10) days prior to the public hearing attesting to
where and when the sign(s) were posted. Failure to provide proof of posting by
such date may result in the hearing being continued or delayed until the proof
of posting has been satisfied.
         6.   Sign Removal: The signs shall be removed no later than three (3)
days after the public hearing for which the sign had been posted is ended.
   (4)   Public Hearings: On every land use action for which notice is provided
below, both the Planning and Zoning Commission and the City Council shall hold
a public hearing in which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be
heard.
      Following the commission hearing, if the commission recommends a material
change to the proposed amendment/action which was considered at the hearing, it
shall give notice of its proposed recommendation and conduct another public
hearing concerning the matter if the council will not conduct a subsequent
public hearing concerning the proposed amendment. If the council will conduct a
subsequent public hearing, notice of the commission’s recommendation shall be
included in the notice of public hearing provided by the council.
      A.   Types Of Public Hearings:
         1.   Legislative: Legislative hearings include hearings on amendments
to, or enactments of any ordinance. They also include revisions or amendments
to the City of Caldwell Comprehensive Plan, or applications to establish a new
zoning or overlay district. In legislative hearings, the record is not limited
to the record developed by the review body. Any and all new evidence may be
received by Council during a legislative hearing regardless of whether the
evidence was introduced in prior procedural steps.
         2.   Quasi-Judicial: Quasi-judicial hearings are hearings in which the
review bodies are making decisions on the application of policy to a specific
development application.
      B.   Decisions: The decision body shall approve, approve with conditions,
approve with modifications, or deny an application based upon the applicable
standards and criteria in this Code and the City of Caldwell Comprehensive
Plan. Whenever a governing board or zoning or planning and zoning commission
grants or denies an application, it shall specify:
         1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application;
         2.   The reasons for approval or denial; and
         3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain
approval.
      C.   Decision Criteria: A decision body authorized to act under this Code
shall base a decision on the following criteria and any specific criteria
indicated elsewhere in this chapter for the specific type of application.
         1.   The approval is consistent with the goals, policies, and intent
of the adopted Comprehensive Plan; and
         2.   The approval is consistent with the general purpose of this Code
stated in Section
10-01-02 (2) and
11-01-02 (1).
      D.   Conditions: A decision body authorized to act under this Code may
impose conditions as needed to ensure that the approval is consistent with the
adopted Comprehensive Plan and this Code.
      E.   Hearing Records: A record of the hearings, findings made, and
actions taken by the commission and/or city council shall be maintained by the
city.
      F.   Notice Of Decisions: The approval or denial of any application
required or authorized pursuant to Title 67, Chapter 65, Idaho Code, shall be
in writing and accompanied by a reasoned statement. A reasoned statement
explains the criteria and standards considered relevant, states the relevant
contested facts relied upon, and explains the rationale for the decision based
on the applicable provisions of the comprehensive plan, relevant ordinance and
statutory provisions, pertinent constitutional principles and factual
information contained in the record. Every final decision rendered shall
provide or be accompanied by notice to the applicant regarding the applicant’s
right to request a regulatory taking analysis pursuant to section 67-8003,
Idaho Code. An applicant denied an application or aggrieved by a final decision
concerning matters identified in section 67-6521(1)(a), Idaho Code, may within
twenty-eight (28) days after all remedies have been exhausted under local
ordinance seek judicial review under the procedures provided by Title 67,
Chapter 52, Idaho Code.
      G.   Request For Reconsideration By Affected Persons: On any application
brought before the city council affecting the use, occupancy or development of
real property, including, but not limited to, those matters governed by the
Idaho Local Land Use Planning Act, found at Idaho Code section 67-6501 et seq.,
or the Caldwell Zoning Ordinance, found in this title, a party may request that
the city council reconsider a decision pursuant to the terms of this section.
Decisions and recommendations of the planning and zoning commission are not
subject to reconsideration but may be appealed to the city council as provided
in this title.
         Except that, decisions on annexations, being legislative decisions, do
not qualify for reconsideration, and requests for reconsideration on
annexations are not required to be heard by the City Council. This exception
does not apply to city-initiated annexations subject to judicial review in
accordance with Chapter 2, Title 50, Idaho Code.
         1.   As required by Idaho Code section 67-6535(2)(b), any applicant or
affected person who wishes to seek judicial review of compliance with the
provisions of Idaho Code section 67-6535, must first seek reconsideration of
the final decision within fourteen (14) days.
         2.   Such written request must be delivered to the city clerk within
that time frame and must identify specific deficiencies in the decision for
which reconsideration is sought. Upon reconsideration, the decision may be
affirmed, reversed or modified after compliance with applicable procedural
standards.
         3.   The city council shall review the petition for reconsideration at
a regular meeting and decide whether to reconsider the matter.
         4.   The city council may consider its decision only if it finds any
of the following:
            (A)   There was a clerical error in the decision;
            (B)   The decision resulted from fraud or mistake;
            (C)   There is new evidence for the record or a change in
circumstances;
            (D)   There was a procedural error;
            (E)   The council previously rejected the application by a tie
vote; or
            (F)   The decision was made in violation of substantive law.
         5.   If the city council chooses to reconsider the final decision, the
city council shall provide the applicant or affected person a written decision
on such action. If the city council grants reconsideration in whole or in part,
a hearing before the city council will be scheduled to address the specific
deficiencies identified by the applicant or affected person, which shall be
conducted pursuant to the public notice procedures set forth in this section.
The issues examined upon reconsideration shall be limited to issues raised by
the petition for reconsideration and the record previously established, as well
as the applicable law. The cost of all required notices shall be borne by the
party(ies) seeking reconsideration of the decision and paid in advance.
         6.   Following the hearing on the reconsideration, the city council
may affirm, reverse, or modify, in whole or in part, its’ prior decision and
shall provide a written decision to the applicant and the affected person(s)
within sixty (60) days of receipt of the request for reconsideration. If the
city council fails to timely decide, the request for reconsideration is deemed
denied. A decision shall not be deemed final for purposes of judicial review
unless the process required in this subsection has been followed. The twenty-
eight (28) day time frame for seeking judicial review is tolled until the date
of the written decision regarding reconsideration or the expiration of the
sixty (60) day reconsideration period, whichever occurs first.
         7.   Once the council has reconsidered any of its decisions relating
to a given application, as set forth hereinabove, it may not entertain any
additional or subsequent request for reconsideration, whether by the same or
any other interested party.
         8.   A failure to request reconsideration is a failure of the
applicant or affected party to exhaust administrative remedies.
      H.   Appeals:
         1.   Any applicant or party aggrieved by a decision of the planning
and zoning commission, hearing examiner, or other hearing body, with respect to
the provisions of this article may appeal that decision to the city council by
filing a notice of appeal with the city clerk within fifteen (15) days
following the date upon which the decision was made.
   2.   Content Of Appeal: All appeals shall be in writing and shall contain
the following:
            (A)   The appellant’s name, address, and telephone number;
            (B)   The appellant’s statement describing his or her standing to
appeal;
            (C)   Identification of the application and/or decision which is
the subject of the appeal;
            (D)   The appellant’s statement of grounds for the appeal
addressing why the appellant believes the decision to be unlawful or
inappropriate to the factual circumstances.
         3.   Setting Of Appeal Hearing: Upon the timely filing of appeal, the
city shall set the date, time and place for the appeal to be heard by the city
council.
         4.   Burden Of Proof: The appellant shall bear the burden of proving
the decision was unlawful or inappropriate to the factual circumstances.
         5.   The council shall give legal public notice to the parties in
interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time following the hearing.
At the hearing, any affected party may appear in person, by agent or attorney.
(Ord. 2982, 2-2-2015; amd. Ord. 3522, 9-5-2023; Ord. 3642, 1-21-2025; Ord.
3663, 4-21-2025)
10-03-13 DESIGN REVIEW PROCESS:
10-03-13-1 GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   (1)   Purpose: The design review process is intended to provide for an
effective process and framework to review proposed site and building design
proposals to ensure conformance with the City of Caldwell’s comprehensive plan
goals, other city adopted master plan goals, the City of Caldwell’s codes and
ordinances, and adopted design review standards and guidelines.
   (2)   Intent: The intent of design review is to:
      A.   Ensure that both existing development and new development can work
together to create vibrant, dynamic, and appealing places to live and work;
      B.   Ensure that every project proposal positively enhances the overall
image of the community for both residents, workers, and visitors;
      C.   Strengthen the vitality of neighborhoods, districts and corridors;
      D.   Ensure that increased density or intensity of uses within
established neighborhoods make a positive contribution to the area’s character;
      E.   Promote design excellence in the built environment;
      F.   Build on context by enhancing the distinctive physical, natural,
historic and cultural qualities of the location; and
      G.   Encourage social interaction by contributing to the public realm.
   (3)   Applicability: This section shall apply to all sites, buildings and
situations as specified in 10-03-13-1(4) that are located within the following
overlay zones, unless otherwise noted in this section:
      A.   Entertainment Overlay Districts (section
10-11-03)
      B.   Historic Overlay Districts (section
10-11-04)
         1.   Exemption: All buildings, sites, structures, or signage within
the HD-1 Steunenberg Residential Historic District Overlay zone, shall be
exempt from the provisions of this section, but shall be subject to the
provisions of
Chapter 2, Article 17 of this code for obtaining a Certificate of
Appropriateness.
      C.   Scenic Overlay Districts (section
10-11-05)
      D.   Special Development and Urban Design Overlay Districts (section
10-11-07)
   (4)   Sites, Buildings and Situations:
      A.   The following situations are subject to design review in accordance
with this section:
         1.   New multifamily, commercial, industrial, and institutional
structures and buildings.
         2.   Multifamily developments.
         3.   Mixed-Use Developments.
         4.   Zero-lot line townhouses with three or more units attached.
         5.   Signage to include subdivision signage.
         6.   Fences, walls, and screening.
         7.   Surface parking lots.
         8.   Planned Unit Developments or Master Planned Communities.
         9.   Exterior building renovation and restoration.
         10.   Exterior painting.
         11.   Exterior site improvements or alterations (e.g. landscaping,
common areas).
         12.   Enlargement or expansion of existing buildings, signs or sites.
         13.   New or replacement of windows and/or doors on structure within
the Downtown Urban Design Overlay district.
   (5)   Exemptions:
      A.   An individual single-family detached dwelling located within the RS-
1, RS-2, and R-1 zoning districts are specifically excluded from the
requirements of this section, unless part of a subdivision, planned unit
development, master planned community, or mixed-use development.
      B.   Surface parking lots, to include repainting and striping do not
require design review but do require the submission of an Administrative
Development Review Application for review of the site plan and landscape plan.
      C.   Garages and storage sheds accessory to single family detached
dwellings.
   (6)   Other Regulations: Nothing in this article shall be construed to
exempt any person or entity from compliance with any requirement of any other
regulation or ordinance, nor to amend any other ordinance. (Ord. 3663, 4-21-
2025)
10-03-13-2 TYPES OF DESIGN REVIEW:
   The Director will determine whether a project is exempt from Design Review
and whether a Design Review Application is subject to staff-level approval from
the Community Development Director, or from the Design Review Commission or
Historic Commission.
   (1)   Administrative Level Design Review:
      A.   Administrative level design review is a review completed at a staff
level and is intended for projects that are minor in nature and impact, but
that are not exempt from the Design Review process. The following are
considered “minor” projects and require administrative staff-level design
review, unless otherwise noted herein. The Director has the authority to
require any minor project to go before the Design Review Commission due to the
complexity of the project, the nature of its surroundings, or due to a request
for alternative compliance.
         1.   A single stand-alone commercial or mixed-use building on a site
not exceeding 5,000 square feet gross floor area that is not on a lot abutting
a residential zoning district or residential use; except for within the
downtown districts;
         2.   A single stand-alone industrial building on a site not exceeding
20,000 square feet gross floor area that is not on a lot or parcel abutting a
residential zoning district or a residential use;
         3.   A residential development of less than 50 dwelling units;
         4.   Signs;
         5.   Roof and fascia changes;
         6.   Non-residential accessory buildings;
         7.   Residential accessory dwelling units within the UD-1 overlay
zone;
         8.   Exterior renovations and alterations, to include painting; except
for exterior renovations and alterations of 50% or more within the downtown
districts;
         9.   Surface parking lots;
         10.   Zero lot-line townhomes;
         11.   Landscaping improvements or alterations not associated with a
building or structure;
         12.   Replacement of windows and/or doors on structures within the
Downtown Districts.
   (2)   Commission Level Design Review: A commission level design review is
required for all projects not classified as minor in 10-02-13-1(1), or as
referred by the Director. Project proposals under commission level are reviewed
by the Design Review Commission during a noticed public hearing. (Ord. 3663, 4-
21-2025)
10-03-13-3 APPLICATION SUBMITTAL AND PROCESSING:
   (1)   Application Submission:
      A.   Any person or entity proposing to construct or locate within the
City any improvement subject to Design Review, shall file an application for
review of the project. The application shall be accompanied by architectural
and site development drawings, drawn to scale and shall include all information
specified in the application form and checklist. Design Review Staff may
require additional information from applicants which is pertinent to the
application necessary to evaluate the project. All applicable fees must be paid
prior to formal acceptance of any application.
      B.   Design reviews are conducted prior to final approval of any land use
entitlements or prior to the final approval of permits (if no land use
entitlements are required).
   (2)   Application Processing: Once the application has been formally
accepted, the director, or his/her designee, will examine the application and
route the application for administrative staff level review or place the
application on the hearing schedule for the next available public hearing
before the Design Review Commission.
   (3)   Hearing Dates; Commission Level: Hearing dates for commission levels
reviews are dependent on the date of final acceptance of the application, and
the number of applications already scheduled on a specific hearing date.
   (4)   Noticing: Noticing is not required for administrative level staff
reviews. Commission level staff reviews require an agenda to be posted in
accordance with the Idaho Open Meeting Laws. Noticing by mail to adjacent
property owners is not required. (Ord. 3663, 4-21-2025)
10-03-13-4 DESIGN REVIEW EXPIRATION: 
   Design Review approval shall expire two (2) years from the initial date of
approval unless substantial construction has commenced under valid permits.
Design Review approval may be extended by the Director upon application for up
to one (1) additional year from the date of expiration. A fee may be imposed by
the city to process extension requests. Substantial alterations to the approved
design associated with a development shall require a new application. (Ord.
3663, 4-21-2025)
10-03-13-5 PROHIBITIONS:
   No building permit, license, certificate of occupancy, entitlement or other
approval shall be issued or given by the City or by any department thereof with
respect to any improvement subject to Design Review until the design of the
improvement has been approved as in accordance with this section and a zoning
certificate issued. (Ord. 3663, 4-21-2025)
10-03-13-6 NUISANCES:
   Any improvement constructed, located, repaired, altered or maintained in
violation of the provisions hereof and in this chapter is hereby declared to be
unlawful and a public nuisance, abatable in the manner provided for elsewhere
in this Code. (Ord. 3663, 4-21-2025)
10-03-14 DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES:
10-03-14-1 SHORT TITLE, AUTHORITY AND EFFECTIVE DATE:
   (1)   Short Title: This section shall be known and may be cited as the CITY
OF CALDWWELL DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE ORDINANCE.
   (2)   Authority: This ordinance is enacted pursuant to the city’s general
police powers pursuant to the authority granted to the city by title 50, Idaho
Code, and pursuant to the authority granted to the city by section 67-8201 et
seq., Idaho Code. (Ord. 3642, 1-21-2025)
10-03-14-2 FINDINGS; GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   (1)   The city council of the city of Caldwell, Idaho finds that:
      A.   The City of Caldwell has established and consulted with a
development impact fee advisory committee;
      B.   All new residential and non-residential growth and development
creates an impact and imposes increasing demands upon public facilities and
services.
      C.   The revenues generated from new residential and non-residential
growth and development often do not generate sufficient general funds to
provide the necessary improvements of these public facilities to accommodate
new growth and development.
      D.   New growth and development are expected to continue and will place
ever increasing demands on the city to provide and expand the public facilities
to serve new growth and development.
      E.   Impact fees provide an equitable program for planning and financing
public facilities needed to serve new growth and development and are necessary
in order to promote and accommodate orderly growth and development and to
protect the public health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the
city.
      F.   The creation of an equitable impact fee system would enable the city
to impose a development impact fee that does not exceed a proportionate share
of the actual costs of system improvements, or reasonable estimates of such
costs, to accommodate new growth and development, as determined and in
accordance with section 67-8207, Idaho Code.
      G.   This ordinance creates a system by which impact fees paid by new
growth and development will be used to finance, defray or to provide capital
improvements for the public facilities in ways that benefit the development for
which impact fees were paid.
      H.   This ordinance creates a system under which impact fees shall not be
used to correct existing deficiencies in public facilities, or to replace or
rehabilitate existing public facilities, or to pay for routine operation or
maintenance of those public facilities.
      I.   This ordinance is consistent with all applicable provisions of title
67, chapter 82, Idaho Code, concerning impact fee ordinances.
      J.   The impact fee study used a calculation methodology in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles that is net of credits for the
present value of revenues that will be generated by new growth and development
based on historical funding patterns and that are anticipated to be available
to pay for system improvements, including taxes, assessments, user fees, and
intergovernmental transfers, and included consideration of the following
factors:
         1.   The cost of existing system improvements within the service area;
         2.   The means by which existing system improvements have been
financed;
         3.   The extent to which the new growth and development will
contribute to the cost of system improvements through taxation, assessment, or
developer or landowner contributions, or has previously contributed to the cost
of system improvements through developer or landowner contributions;
         4.   The extent to which the new growth and development is required to
contribute to the cost of existing system improvements in the future;
         5.   The extent to which the new growth and development should be
credited for providing system improvements, without charge to other properties
within the service area;
         6.   Extraordinary costs incurred in serving the new growth and
development;
         7.   The time and price differential inherent in a fair comparison of
impact fees paid at different times;
         8.   The availability of other sources of funding system improvements
including, but not limited to, user charges, general tax levies, transfers, and
special taxation; and
         9.   The method for computing the impact fees for each service
category and different land uses.
      K.   The city has planned for the improvement of the public facilities in
the city of Caldwell comprehensive plan and other adopted master plans, which
in turn helped formulate the capital improvement plans listed in this
ordinance.
      L.   The impact fee studies and/or analysis, impact fees, and capital
improvement plans are consistent with the city of Caldwell comprehensive plan.
      M.   The impact fee study sets forth reasonable methodologies and
analyses for determining the impacts of various types of new growth and
development on the public facilities and determines the cost of acquiring or
constructing the improvements necessary to meet the demands for such public
facilities created by new growth and development.
      N.   The maximum allowable impact fees described in this article are
based on the impact fee studies, and do not exceed the costs of system
improvements for the public facilities to serve new growth and development that
will pay the impact fees.
      O.   The police, fire, parks, and traffic public facilities and capital
improvements included in the calculation of impact fees in the impact fee study
will benefit all new growth and development throughout the city, and it is
therefore appropriate to treat all areas of the city as a single service area
for purposes of calculating, collecting and spending the impact fees collected.
      P.   There is both a rational nexus and a rough proportionality between
the development impacts created by each type of development covered by this
ordinance and the impact fees that such development will be required to pay.
      Q.   Based on the city of Caldwell comprehensive plan, as amended,
adopted by the city pursuant to title 67, chapter 65, Idaho Code, and the
general governmental goal of protecting the health, safety, and general welfare
of the citizens of the city, it is necessary to establish development impact
fees on all new development to accommodate growth and the additional demand on
public services and facilities that it creates in accordance with title 67,
chapter 82, Idaho Code. (Ord. 3642, 1-21-2025)
10-03-14-3 EFFECTIVE DATE:
   (1)   Original Effective Date: The original effective date of this ordinance
was May 15, 2007 (the “effective date”), which was at least thirty (30) days
subsequent to the passage, approval and publication, according to law, of
ordinance 2671, which adopted the provisions hereof.
   (2)   Amendment Effective Dates: Any amendments to this ordinance will be
effective at least thirty (30) days subsequent to the passage, approval and
publication of such ordinance amendments.
   (3)   Applications for building permits received by the city prior to the
effective date hereof, or amendments hereto, adopting impact fees or amending
or adopting any methodology by which impact fees are calculated, will be exempt
from that portion of this ordinance, or amendment enacted after such building
permit application, if a valid building permit has been issued or construction
has commenced prior to the effective date hereof, or amendment. For building
permits that expire or are revoked after the effective date, the fee payor
shall be entitled to a refund of previously paid impact fees as provided
further in section
10-03-14-12 of this section, provided that in the case of reapplication for
building permit, the public safety impact fee in effect at that time shall be
paid. (Ord. 2671, 4-3-2007; amd. Ord. 3642, 1-21-2025)
10-03-14-4 DEFINITIONS:
   For definitions, see section
10-01-10 of this chapter. (Ord. 3642, 1-21-2025)
10-03-14-5 ESTABLISHMENT OF IMPACT FEES AND SERVICE AREAS:
   (1)   Park Impact Fees:
      A.   There is hereby established a park impact fee service area, to
include all land within the city limits.
      B.   Parks impact fees and system improvements will be in accordance with
the Impact Fee Study and CIP prepared by Galena Consulting, dated July 2, 2019,
and amended January 2020.
      C.   Parks impact fees shall be required as a condition of approval of
all residential development in the service area for which a building permit is
required and shall be payable prior to the issuance of any building permit (or
installation permit in the case of a manufactured home) for a dwelling unit.
   (2)   Fire Impact Fees:
      A.   There is hereby established a fire impact fee service area, to
include all land within the city limits.
      B.   Fire impact fees and system improvements will be in accordance with
the Impact Fee Study and CIP prepared by Galena Consulting, dated July 2, 2019,
and amended January 19, 202.
      C.   Fire impact fees shall be required as a condition of approval of all
residential and non-residential development in the service area for which a
building permit is required and shall be payable prior to the issuance of any
building permit (or installation permit in the case of a manufactured home) for
a dwelling unit or a non-residential building.
   (3)   Police Impact Fees:
      A.   There is hereby established a police impact fee service area, to
include all land within the city limits.
      B.   Police impact fees and system improvements will be in accordance
with the Impact Fee Study and CIP prepared by Galena Consulting, dated July 2,
2019, and amended January 2020.
      C.   Police impact fees shall be required as a condition of approval of
all residential and non-residential development in the service area for which a
building permit is required and shall be payable prior to the issuance of any
building permit (or installation permit in the case of a manufactured home) for
a dwelling unit or a non-residential building.
   (4)   Traffic Impact Fees:
      A.   There is hereby established a traffic impact fee service area, to
include all land within the city limits.
      B.   Traffic impact fees and system improvements will be in accordance
with the Caldwell Area CIP and Traffic Impact Fee Program prepared by Kittleson
& Associates, Inc, dated September 9, 2024.
      C.   Traffic impact fees shall be required as a condition of approval of
all residential and non-residential development in the service area for which a
building permit is required and shall be payable prior to the issuance of any
building permit (or installation permit in the case of a manufactured home) for
a dwelling unit or a non-residential building. (Ord. 3642, 1-21-2025)
10-03-14-6 COMPUTATION OF IMPACT FEES:
   (1)   The methodology adopted for the purpose of determining impact fees
shall be based upon the assumptions set forth in the impact fee study.
   (2)   Expansion, Change of Use: If development results in either the
expansion of an existing nonresidential land use, a change from a
nonresidential land use type to a different nonresidential land use type, or a
change from a residential to nonresidential land use type, then an impact fee
shall be assessed only for the additional impact attributable to the expansion,
change or more intensive use.
   (3)   Removal, Demolish of Building; Replacement Structure: When a building
or structure will be removed or demolished and impact fees for such building or
structure were paid, the fee payer shall pay an impact fee based upon the
difference between the fee that would have been paid for the previous structure
and the fee for the new structure on the site; provided, that the prior
structure was removed or demolished not more than ten (10) years prior to the
application for a building permit and documentation of its previous existence
and size is provided to the Impact Fee Administrator. In all other cases, the
replacement structure will be treated as a new development.
   (4)   Nonconformance With Land Use Category: If the proposed development
does not conform to a land use category identified by the most current adopted
impact fee study, then the Impact Fee Administrator shall apply the land use
category that most closely resembles the proposed use.
   (5)   Extraordinary Impact:
      A.   The city recognizes that there may be circumstances where the
anticipated fiscal impacts of a proposed development are of such magnitude that
the city may be unable to accommodate the development without excessive or
unscheduled public expenditures that exceed the amount of the anticipated
impact fees from such development.
      B.   If the city determines that a proposed development would create such
an extraordinary impact on the city’s police, fire, and/or parks and recreation
public facilities, the city may refuse to approve the proposed development. In
the alternative, the city may calculate a pro rata share per dwelling unit, or
square feet of nonresidential buildings, as applicable, of the extraordinary
impact and charge a reasonable extraordinary impact fee that is greater than
would ordinarily be charged.
   (3)   A fee payor required by this ordinance to pay an impact fee may choose
to have the amount of such impact fee determined pursuant to either the impact
fee schedule(s) or subsections
10-03-14-8 of this section. If the fee payor chooses to have the amount of such
impact fee determined pursuant to subsections
10-03-14-8 this section, such impact fee shall be subject to the adjustment
described in subsection
10-03-14-10 of this section, if applicable. If the project is a mix of those
uses listed on the fee schedule, then the impact fees shall be determined by
adding up the impact fees that would be payable for each use as if it were a
freestanding use pursuant to the fee schedule.
   (4)   If the city discovers an error in its impact fee formula that results
in assessment or payment of more than a proportionate share, city shall, at the
time of assessment on a case-by-case basis, adjust the impact fee to collect no
more than a proportionate share or discontinue the collection of any impact
fees until the error is corrected by ordinance. (Ord. 3642, 1-21-2025)
10-03-14-7 PAYMENT OF IMPACT FEES:
   (1)   Payment Required:
      A.   The fee payers shall pay all impact fees prior to the issuance of a
building permit, unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the City and the fee
payer. No construction shall commence, nor shall the City issue a building
permit unless and until the fee payer has satisfied the provisions of this
ordinance.
      B.   Applications for building permits filed shall be subject to the
provisions of the most current ordinance in effect at the time of application.
      C.   Applications filed, but which expire or are revoked, shall be
subject to the provisions of the most current ordinance in effect at the time
of reapplication. In the event that an amendment results in a change in the
amount of impact fees charged for a particular category of public facility or
improvement, the fee payer shall pay the impact fee amount in effect upon the
date of his or her reapplication.
      D.   If a building permit expires or is revoked and development or
construction does not commence, the owner of record shall be entitled to a
refund of previously paid impact fees for that development as set forth by
subsection
10-03-14-11 of this section. The owner of record shall not receive a refund for
proposed development activity resulting in a negative fee calculation or in
cases in which final City approval has not occurred.
      E.   All impact fees paid by a fee payor pursuant to this section shall
be promptly deposited in the impact fee fund described in subsection
10-03-14-12 of this section. (Ord. 3642, 1-21-2025)
10-03-14-8 INDIVIDUAL ASSESSMENT OF IMPACT FEES:
   An individual assessment of impact fees is permitted when the fee payer
demonstrates by clear and convincing evidence that the established impact fee
is inappropriate.
   (1)   Application: Written application for individual assessment shall be
made to the impact fee administrator at any time prior to receiving building
permit(s). Late applications for individual assessment of impact fees may be
considered for a period of sixty (60) days after the receipt of a building
permit only if the fee payor makes a showing that the facts supporting such
application were not known or discoverable prior to receipt of a building
permit and that undue hardship would result if said application is not
considered.
   (2)   Cost to Fee Payor: Such independent impact fee calculation study for
the fee payor’s development shall be prepared at the fee payor’s cost by a
qualified professional and contain studies, data and other relevant information
and be submitted to the fee administrator for review. Any such study shall be
based on the same methodology and the same level of service standards,
improvements and costs used in the impact fee study and must document the
methodologies and assumptions used.
   (3)   Professional Consultant Review: The city may hire a professional
consultant to review any independent impact fee calculation study on behalf of
the city and may charge the reasonable costs of such review to the fee payor.
   (4)   Any independent impact fee calculation study submitted by a fee payor
may be accepted, rejected or accepted with modifications by the city as the
basis for calculating impact fees. The city shall not be required to accept any
study or documentation the city reasonably deems to be inaccurate or unreliable
and shall have the authority to request that the fee payor submit additional or
different documentation for consideration in connection with review of any
independent impact fee calculation. If such additional or different
documentation is accepted or accepted with modifications as a more accurate
measure of the impact fees due in connection with fee payor’s proposed
development than the applicable impact fees set forth in the fee schedule, then
the impact fee due under this article shall be calculated according to such
documentation.
   (5)   Written Decision: The Impact Fee Administrator shall render a written
decision regarding the individual assessment within thirty (30) days of receipt
of the application. The decision by the Impact Fee Administrator shall include
an explanation of the calculation of the impact and an explanation of factors
considered under Idaho Code section 67-8707 and shall specify the system
improvement(s) for which the impact fee is intended to be used. The written
decision shall also include an explanation of the following factors considered:
      A.   The cost of existing system improvements within the service area;
      B.   The means by which existing system improvements have been financed;
      C.   The extent to which the new growth and development will contribute
to the cost of system improvements through taxation, assessment, or developer
or landowner contributions, or has previously contributed to the cost of system
improvements through developer or landowner contributions;
      D.   The extent to which the new growth and development is required to
contribute to the cost of existing system improvements in the future;
      E.   The extent to which the new growth and development should be
credited for providing system improvements, without charge to other properties
within the service area;
      F.   Extraordinary costs incurred in serving the new growth and
development (if any);
      G.   The time and price differential inherent in a fair comparison of
impact fees paid at different times; and
      H.   The availability of other sources of funding system improvements
including, but not limited to, user charges, general tax levies, transfers, and
special taxation. (Ord. 3642, 1-21-2025)
10-03-14-9 EXEMPT DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES:
   (1)   Claim Of Exemption: A fee payer shall claim an exempt development
activity upon application for a building permit.
   (2)    Activities Specified: The following development activities shall be
exempted from the payment of impact fees imposed by this section:
      A.   Rebuild or Replacement: Rebuilding or replacing a dwelling unit or
the same amount of square feet of a nonresidential structure on the same lot
and existing on the effective date of this article provided that the rebuilt or
replaced dwelling unit or nonresidential structure does not increase the need
for police, fire, parks or transportation public facilities or system
improvements.
      B.   Detached Accessory Structures / Additions: Construction of an
unoccupied, detached accessory structure, or addition of uses related to a
dwelling unit unless it can be clearly demonstrated that the use creates a
significant impact on the capacity of system improvements.
      C.   Remodels or Repairs: Remodeling or repairing a dwelling unit or a
nonresidential structure in a manner that does not increase the need for
police, fire, parks, or transportation public facilities or system
improvements.
      D.   Destroyed Structures: Rebuilding or replacing a structure destroyed
or damaged by fire or other catastrophe, with a new structure which does not
increase the impact over that attributable to the destroyed or damaged
structure; provided that the structure is rebuilt and ready for occupancy
within two (2) years of its destruction.
      E.   Temporary Uses: Placing a temporary construction trailer or office
on a site.
      F.   Modular Buildings and Manufactured Homes: An impact fee will be
assessed for installation of a modular building or manufactured home unless the
fee payor can demonstrate by documentation such as utility bills and tax
records, either: a) that a modular building or manufactured home was legally in
place on the lot or space prior to the effective date of this article; or b)
that an impact fee has been paid previously for the installation of a modular
building or manufactured home on that same lot or space.
      G.   Affordable Housing: Developments determined by the city council that
provide affordable housing may be exempt from the impact fee requirement,
provided that the exempt development’s proportionate share of system
improvements is funded through a revenue source other than impact fees.
         1.   Current housing affordability guidelines published by the U.S.
department of housing and urban development (“HUD”) shall be used to determine
whether dwelling units in the development qualify as affordable housing.
         2.   Affordable housing projects are required to demonstrate that they
will provide dwelling units to eligible families based on HUD income and family
size guidelines.
         3.   Providers of affordable housing dwelling units must demonstrate a
long-term commitment to providing affordable housing for a period of not less
than twenty (20) years. Affordability of the designated percentage of the
development shall be ensured through covenants and deed restrictions at the
discretion of the city in consultation with the city attorney. (Ord. 3642, 1-
21-2025)
10-03-14-10 IMPACT FEE OFFSETS AND CREDITS:
   (1)   A fee payer shall receive credit or reimbursement for the present
value of any system improvement, the value of dedication of real property to
the City, or other contribution required by the City from the developer for
system improvements of the category for which the impact fee is being collected
in accordance with this section.
      A.   System Improvements:
         1.   All system improvements constructed, funded or contributed for
police, fire, parks and traffic capital improvements for which an impact fee is
imposed, over and above those required by the city in connection with new
development, shall result in either a credit on future impact fees or
reimbursement (at the fee payor’s option) for such excess to be paid by future
development that benefits from such system improvements. However, no credit or
reimbursement shall be provided for: a) project improvements; b) any
construction, funding or contribution not agreed to in writing by the city
prior to commencement of such construction, funding or contribution; and c) any
construction, funding or contribution of a type of capital improvements not
included in the calculation of the applicable impact fee.
         2.   Approved credits for contribution or construction of system
improvements shall generally become effective when: a) all required
construction has been completed and has been accepted by the city; and b) all
design, construction, inspection, testing, bonding, and acceptance procedures
have been completed in compliance with all applicable requirements of the city.
Approved credits for the construction of system improvements may become
effective at an earlier date if the fee payor posts security in the form of a
performance bond, irrevocable letter of credit or escrow agreement in the
amount and under terms reasonably acceptable to the city.
      B.   Land Dedications:
         1.   Credit for land dedications shall, at the fee payor’s option, be
valued at: a) one hundred percent (100%) of the most recent assessed value for
such land as shown in the records of the Canyon County assessor; or b) that
fair market value established by an MAI appraiser reasonably acceptable to the
city in an appraisal paid for by the fee payor. Credit for contribution or
construction of system improvements shall be valued by the city based on
complete engineering drawings, specifications, and construction cost estimates
submitted by the fee payor to the city, which estimates shall be revised as
actual costs become available. The city shall determine the amount of credit
due based on the information submitted, or, if the city determines that such
information is inaccurate or unreliable, then on alternative engineering or
construction costs reasonably acceptable to the city as a more accurate measure
of the value of the offered system improvements to the city.
         2.   Approved credits for land dedications shall become effective when
the land has been conveyed to the city in a form reasonably acceptable to the
city at no cost to the city and has been accepted by the city.
   (2)   Calculation of Credits and Reimbursements:
      A.   In the calculation of impact fees for a project, credit or
reimbursement (at the fee payor’s option) shall be given for the present value
of any construction of system improvements or contribution of land or money
required by the city from the fee payor for system improvements of the category
for which the impact fee is being collected, including system improvements paid
for through local improvement district assessments.
      B.   In the calculation of impact fees for a project pursuant to section
10-03-14-7, credit shall be given for the present value of all tax and user fee
revenue generated by the fee payor within the service area and used by the city
for system improvements of the category for which the impact fee is being
collected. If the amount of such credit exceeds the impact fee for a project,
the fee payor shall receive a credit on future impact fees.
   (3)   Approved Credits and Reimbursements:
      A.   Approved credits or reimbursement shall only be used to reduce the
amount of the impact fee of the category for which the impact fee is otherwise
due, and shall not be paid to the fee payor in cash or in credits against any
other monies due from the fee payor to the city.
      B.   If credit or reimbursement is due to the fee payor, the city and fee
payor shall enter into a written agreement, negotiated in good faith, prior to
the construction, funding or contribution. The written agreement shall include,
without limitation:
         1.   A description of the construction, funding or contribution of
system improvements including, in the case of real property, a legal
description of the real property;
         2.   A description as to how the system improvements are to be valued;
         3.   The amount of the credit or the amount, time and form of
reimbursement;
         4.   Instructions as to how the capital improvements should be
provided to the city to ensure full transfer of ownership; and
         5.   The circumstances under which the credit or reimbursement is
deemed effective.
            To assist in such reimbursement, the city shall continue to collect
impact fees from other developers whose proposed developments will benefit from
such construction, funding or contribution, and will promptly transfer such
funds to the fee payor. If a successor in interest claims a reimbursement or
credit, the impact fee administrator may require written documentation that
such rights have been conveyed to the claimant prior to issuing the requested
reimbursement or credit.
   (4)   Use of Approved Credits and Reimbursements:
      A.   Approved credits or reimbursements shall only be used to reduce the
amount of the impact fee of the category for which the impact fee is otherwise
due and shall not be paid to the fee payor in cash or in credits against any
other monies due from the fee payor to the city.
      B.   Approved credits may be used to reduce the amount of impact fees of
the category for which the impact fee is being collected in connection with any
new growth and development until the amount of the credit is exhausted.
      C.   Each time a request to use approved credits is presented to the
city, the city shall reduce the amount of the applicable impact fee otherwise
due from the fee payor and shall note in the city records the amount of credit
remaining, if any.
      D.   Upon request of the fee payor, the city shall issue a letter stating
the amount of credit available. If the credit has not been exhausted within
eight (8) years of the date of issuance of the first building permit for which
an impact fee was due and payable, or within such other time period as may be
designated in writing by the city, such credit shall lapse, unless a refund of
the remaining credit is applied for as set forth in subsection
10-03-14-11 of this section.
   (5)   Transfer of Credits: Credit may only be transferred by a fee payor
that has received credit to such fee payor’s successor in interest. The credit
may be used only to offset impact fees for the same category for which the
credit was issued. Credits shall be transferred by any written instrument
clearly identifying which credits are being transferred, the dollar amount of
the credit being transferred, and the system improvements for which the credit
was issued. The instrument of transfer shall be signed by both the transferor
and transferee, and a copy of the document shall be delivered to the fee
administrator for documentation of the transfer before the transfer shall be
deemed effective.
   (6)   Limitations: All offsets and credits against impact fees shall be
subject to the following limitations and shall be granted based on this
chapter:
      A.   No offset or credit shall be given for the dedication or
construction of required project improvements or site related facilities.
      B.   A fee payer shall not receive an offset or credit in excess of that
amount to be collected from the assessed impact fee.
      C.   The unit costs used to calculate the offsets or credits shall not
exceed those assumed for the capital improvements included in the CIP(s) for
the category of facility within the service area for which the impact fee is
imposed.
      D.   The City will not reimburse the property owner or fee payer for an
offset or credit when no impact fees for the new development can be collected
pursuant to this ordinance or for any amount exceeding the total impact fees
due for the new development for the category of capital improvement.
      E.   The amount of any offset or credit shall not include the amount
attributable to participation by the City in the development.
      F.   No fee payor shall be required to construct, fund or contribute any
capital improvement to meet the same need for police, fire, parks, and traffic
capital improvements for which an impact fee is imposed. (Ord. 3642, 1-21-2025)
10-03-14-11 REFUNDS:
   (1)   Written Application for Refund: In order to be eligible for a refund,
a fee payor, successor in interest or owner of record shall file a written
application for a refund with the impact fee administrator within six (6)
months of the time such refund becomes payable under subsection
10-03-14-14 (2) of this section, or within six (6) months of publication of the
notice of entitlement to a refund, whichever is later. If a successor in
interest claims a refund of impact fees, the fee administrator may require
written documentation that such rights have been transferred to the claimant
prior to issuing the requested refund. Refunds shall be paid within sixty (60)
days after the date on which the impact fee administrator determines that a
sufficient proof of claim for a refund has been made.
   (2)   Refund Criteria: The fee payor or successor in interest shall be
entitled to a refund of the impact fee upon request as and as set forth below:
      A.   If a fee payer has paid an impact fee erroneously.
      B.   If a fee payer has paid an impact fee under protest and a subsequent
review of the impact fee paid or the completion of an individual assessment
determines that the fee exceeded the proportionate share to which the city was
entitled. Only upon written authorization from the property owner may the
refund be issued to another designated party, if the developer or fee payer is
not the property owner.
      C.   If a building permit or permit for installation of a manufactured
home is revoked or abandoned.
      D.   If the City, after collecting the fee when service is not available,
fails to appropriate and expend the collected development impact fee pursuant
to Idaho Code section 67-8210(4) or this section.
   (2)   Refund Notification: When the right to a refund exists, within ninety
(90) days after the city determines that a refund is due, the city shall:
      A.   Provide written notice of entitlement to a refund, to the owner of
record and the fee payor who paid the impact fees at the address shown on the
application for development approval, or to a successor in interest who has
notified the city of a transfer of the right or entitlement to a refund and who
has provided the city with a mailing address; and
      B.   Publish the notice of entitlement to a refund within thirty (30)
days after the expiration of the eight (8) year period after the date that the
impact fees were collected. Such published notice shall contain the heading
“Notice of Entitlement to Impact Fee Refund”.
   (3)   Interest: A refund shall include interest at one-half (1/2) the legal
rate as set forth in Idaho Code section 28-22-104 from the date on which the
fee was originally paid.
   (4)   Any person entitled to a refund shall have standing to sue for a
refund under the provisions of this article if there has not been a timely
payment of a refund as provided herein. (Ord. 3642, 1-21-2025)
10-03-14-12 COLLECTION AND PENALTIES:
   The city may utilize the following means and methods to ensure the payment
of impact fees:
   (1)   Interest: Charge interest on any unpaid portions of the impact fee
with interest at the highest legally allowable rate and a penalty of five
percent (5%) for each thirty (30) day period payment is late;
   (2)   Building Permit Withheld: Withholding the building permit until the
impact fee is paid;
   (3)   Utility Service Withheld: Withholding utility services until the
impact fee is paid; or
   (4)   Lien: Creation of a lien for failure to pay the impact fee following
the procedures set forth in Idaho Code title 45, chapter 5. (Ord. 3642, 1-21-
2025)
10-03-14-13 ESTABLISHMENT OF IMPACT FEE FUND ACCOUNTS:
   (1)   Police Fund: There is hereby established a police impact fee fund into
which all police impact fees shall be deposited for the purpose of ensuring
police impact fees collected pursuant hereto are designated for the
accommodation of police capital improvements reasonably necessary to serve new
growth and development that paid the impact fee.
   (2)   Fire Fund: There is hereby established a fire impact fee fund into
which all fire impact fees shall be deposited for the purpose of ensuring fire
impact fees collected pursuant hereto are designated for the accommodation of
fire capital improvements reasonably necessary to serve new growth and
development that paid the impact fee.
   (3)   Parks Fund: There is hereby established a parks and recreation impact
fee fund into which parks impact fees shall be deposited for the purpose of
ensuring parks impact fees collected pursuant hereto are designated for the
accommodation of parks and recreation capital improvements reasonably necessary
to serve new growth and development that paid the impact fee.
   (4)   Traffic Fund: There is hereby established a traffic impact fee fund
into which traffic impact fees shall be deposited for the purpose of ensuring
traffic impact fees collected pursuant hereto are designated for the
accommodation of traffic capital improvements reasonably necessary to serve new
growth and development that paid the impact fee.
   (5)   Earned Interest: Each fund shall be an interest-bearing account which
shall be accounted for separately from other impact fee funds and from other
city funds. Any interest or other income earned on monies deposited in a fund
shall be credited to such funds. Expenditure of impact fees shall be made only
for the category of system improvements for which the impact fees were
collected and as identified in the capital improvements plans.
   (6)   Accounting Controls: The City shall establish adequate financial and
accounting controls to ensure that impact fees are utilized solely for purposes
authorized by this section. Disbursement of funds shall be authorized by the
City at such times as are reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes and
intent of this section. Impact fees shall be expended within a reasonable
period of time as specified in subsection
10-03-14-14 (2) and 10-03-14 (3) of this section. (Ord. 3642, 1-21-2025)
10-03-14-14 IMPACT FEE EXPENDITURES:
   (1)   Permitted Expenditures: Except as otherwise provided herein, monies
from each fund, including any accrued interest, shall be limited to the
financing of acquisition, expansion, and/or improvement of capital
improvements, or for principal and interest payments on bonds or other borrowed
revenues used to acquire, expand or improve such capital improvements,
necessary to serve new growth and development.
   (2)   Time Limit; Expenditure of Funds: Impact fees in each fund shall be
spent within eight (8) years from the date such impact fees were collected on a
first in/first out (FIFO) basis. Funds shall be deemed expended when payment of
such funds has been approved by the city.
   (3)   Time Limit; Extension: The City may hold the impact fees for longer
than eight (8) years, but no more than eleven (11) years from the date the fees
were collected, if it identifies in writing:
      A.   A reasonable cause why the impact fees should be held longer; and
      B.   An anticipated date by which the impact fees will be expended.
   (4)   Prohibited Expenditures: Impact fees collected pursuant to this
section shall not be used to pay for any of the following:
      A.   Construction, acquisition, or expansion of public facilities other
than capital improvements identified in the capital improvements plans.
      B.   Repair, operation or maintenance of existing or new capital
improvements.
      C.   Upgrading, updating, expanding, or replacing existing capital
improvements to serve existing development in order to meet stricter safety,
efficiency, environmental or regulatory standards.
      D.   Upgrading, updating, expanding, or replacing existing capital
improvements to serve existing development to provide better service to
existing development.
      E.   Administrative and operating costs of the city unless such costs are
attributable to development of the capital improvements plans used to determine
impact fees by a surcharge imposed by ordinance on the collection of an impact
fee, which surcharge shall not exceed a development’s proportionate share of
the cost of preparing the capital improvements plans. (Ord. 3642, 1-21-2025)
10-03-14-15 CERTIFICATION:
   (1)   A written application may be made to the impact fee administrator no
later than sixty (60) days after development approval by the city council. Late
applications for certification of the impact fee will not be considered unless
the fee payor makes a showing that the facts supporting such application were
not known or discoverable until after the time had run and that undue hardship
would result if said application is not considered.
   (2)   The impact fee administrator shall provide the fee payor with a
written impact fee certification for the project within thirty (30) days of the
date a complete application is submitted. The certification provided by the fee
administrator shall establish the impact fee for the project in question, so
long as there is no material change to the project as identified in the
certification application or the impact fee schedule. The certification shall
include an explanation of factors considered and shall specify the system
improvement(s) for which the impact fee is intended to be used.
   (3)   The certification shall include an explanation of the calculation of
the impact fee, shall specify the system improvement(s) for which the impact
fee is intended to be used, and shall include an explanation of the factors
considered, which factors are identified in subsection
10-03-14-8 (5) of this section.
   (4)   Appeals of the impact fee administrator’s certification shall be made
to the city as provided further in this section. (Ord. 3642, 1-21-2025)
10-03-14-16 APPEALS:
   The decisions of the impact fee administrator may be appealed as provided
below:
   (1)   Any fee payor who is or may be obligated to pay an impact fee, may
appeal a decision made by the impact fee administrator in applying this section
to the city clerk. Such decisions that may be appealed include:
      A.   The applicability of an impact fee to the development.
      B.   The amount of an impact fee to be paid for the development.
      C.   The availability, amount or application of any credit.
      D.   The amount of any refund, reimbursement or credit.
      A fee payor may pay an impact fee under protest in order to obtain a
development approval or building permit(s) and, by paying such impact fee,
shall not be estopped from exercising the right of appeal provided herein, nor
shall the fee payor be estopped from receiving a refund of any amount deemed to
have been illegally collected. Upon final disposition of an appeal, the impact
fee shall be adjusted in accordance with the decision rendered and, if
necessary, a refund paid.
   (2)   In order to pursue an appeal, the fee payor shall file a written
notice of appeal with the city clerk within fifteen (15) days after the date of
the decision being appealed, or the date on which the fee payor submitted a
payment of impact fees under protest, whichever is later. Such written
application shall include a statement describing why the appellant believes
that the decision was in error, together with copies of any documents that the
appellant believes supports the claim.
   (3)   The city clerk shall notify the fee payor of the hearing date on the
appeal, which notice shall be given no less than fifteen (15) days prior to the
date of the hearing. Such appeal shall be heard within thirty (30) days after
receipt of a written notice of appeal. The appellant shall have a right to be
present and to present evidence in support of the appeal. The impact fee
administrator who made the decision under appeal shall likewise have the right
to be present and to present evidence in support of the decision. The burden of
proof in any such hearing shall be on the fee payor to demonstrate that the
amount of the impact fee, credit, reimbursement or refund was not properly
calculated by the city.
   (4)   City Council Criteria: The city council shall modify the amount of the
impact fee, credit, refund or reimbursement only if there is substantial
evidence in the record that the impact fee administrator erred, based upon the
methodologies contained in the impact fee study, this article and/or the
capital improvements plans. The decision of the city council’s designee shall
be final. The city council may affirm, reject or revise the decision of the
impact fee administrator, providing written findings of fact and conclusions,
within fifteen (15) days after hearing the appeal.
   (5)   Mediation: A fee payor may request that the city enter into mediation
by a qualified independent party to address a disagreement related to the
impact fee for new growth and development. If both parties agree to mediation,
costs for the independent mediation service shall be shared equally by the fee
payor and the city. Mediation may take place at any time during an appeals
process and any time limitation relevant to an appeal shall be tolled. (Ord.
3642, 1-21-2025)
10-03-14-17 DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE ADVISORY COMMISSION:
   (1)   The city has established a development impact fee advisory committee
pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-8205. The advisory committee shall continue to be
composed of not fewer than five (5) members appointed by the city council. Two
(2) or more members of the advisory committee shall be active in the business
of development, building or real estate. Two (2) or more members shall not be
in the business of development, building, or real estate. The advisory
committee shall serve in an advisory capacity to the city council and is
established to:
      A.   Assist the city in adopting land use assumptions;
      B.   Review the capital improvements plans, and proposed amendments, and
file written comments;
      C.   Monitor and evaluate implementation of the capital improvements
plans;
      D.   File periodic reports, at least annually, with respect to the
capital improvements plans and report to the city any perceived inequities in
implementing the capital improvements plans or imposing the impact fees; and
      E.   Advise the city of the need to update or revise land use
assumptions, the capital improvements plans, and development impact fees.
   (2)   The city shall make available to the advisory committee, upon request,
all financial and accounting information, professional reports in relation to
other development and implementation of land use assumptions, the capital
improvements plans, and periodic updates of the capital improvements plans.
(Ord. 3642, 1-21-2025)
10-03-14-18 UPDATE OF CIP, IMPACT FEES, AND ORDINANCE:
   (1)   The impact fees described in this section, and the administrative
procedures of this section shall be reviewed at least once every five (5) years
to ensure that: a) the demand and cost assumptions and other assumptions
underlying such impact fees are still valid; b) the resulting impact fees do
not exceed the actual costs of providing police, fire, and/or parks and
recreation system improvements required to serve new growth and development; c)
the monies collected in any impact fee fund have been and are expected to be
spent for system improvements of the type for which such impact fees were paid;
and d) such system improvements will benefit those developments for which the
impact fees were paid.
   (2)   Prior to assessing new or amended impact fees, the City shall prepare
and adopt an updated CIP for each category of capital improvements.
   (3)   Preparation By Qualified Professions: The CIP shall be prepared by
qualified professionals in fields relating to finance, engineering, planning,
and transportation in consultation with the Development Impact Fee Advisory
Committee.
   (4)   Amending Schedules: Schedules may be amended without revised land use
assumptions and CIP(s) at any time prior to the required update provided in
subsection (1) of this section; provided, that they are amended according to
changes in construction costs from an approved index.
   (5)   Number Adopted: More than one CIP and associated impact fee study may
be adopted, so long as no more than one of each is effective for each category
of necessary public facility at any one time. Multiple categories of necessary
public facilities or improvements may be included in a single CIP and its
associated impact fee study. (Ord. 3642, 1-21-2025)
10-03-14-19 REPORTING:
   (1)   Annual Financial Report: The impact fee administrator shall prepare
annual financial reports to be provided to the impact fee advisory committee,
the mayor and the city council. The report shall include:
      A.   A description and amount of all development impact fees collected,
appropriated or spent during the preceding year by category of public facility
and service area;
      B.   The percentage of tax and revenue other than impact fees collected
appropriated, or spent for system improvements during the preceding year by
category of public facility and service area;
      C.   The length of time that unexpended impact fees have been held and
the expiration date of those impact fees.
      D.   Funds shall be deemed expended when payment of such funds has been
approved by the city. (Ord. 3642, 1-21-2025)
10-03-14-20 OTHER POWERS AND RIGHTS NOT AFFECTED:
   (1)   Agreements: Nothing in this chapter shall prevent or prohibit private
agreements between property owners or developers and the City in regard to the
construction or installation of system improvements or providing for credits or
reimbursements for system improvement costs incurred by a developer, including
inter-project transfers of credits or providing for reimbursement for project
improvements which are used or shared by more than one development project.
   (2)   Extraordinary Impact: The City shall not be obligated to approve
development which results in extraordinary impact.
   (3)   Reduction In Level of Service: The City shall not be obligated to
approve any development request which may reasonably be expected to reduce
levels of service below minimum acceptable levels as established herein.
   (4)   Orderly Development: This ordinance does not create any additional
right to develop real property or diminish the power of the City in regulating
the orderly development of real property within the service area.
   (5)   Eminent Domain: Nothing in this ordinance shall limit the use by the
City of the power of eminent domain or supersede or conflict with requirements
or procedures authorized in the Idaho Code for local improvement districts or
general obligation bond issues. (Ord. 3642, 1-21-2025)
10-03-14-21 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   (1)   As used in this article, masculine, feminine or neuter gender and the
singular or plural number shall each be deemed to include the others wherever
and whenever the context so dictates; the word shall, will or must is always
mandatory; the word may is permissive; and the word should indicates that which
is recommended, but not required.
   (2)   Nothing in this article shall limit or modify the rights of any person
to complete any development for which a lawful building permit was issued prior
to the effective date hereof.
   (3)   Nothing in this article shall prevent the city from requiring a
developer to construct reasonable project improvements in conjunction with a
project.
   (4)   Nothing in this article shall limit the ability of the city to enter
into intergovernmental agreements as provided in section 67-8204A, Idaho Code.
   (5)   Violation of this article shall be subject to those remedies provided
in this code. Knowingly furnishing false information to any official of the
city charged with the administration of this article on any matter relating to
the administration of this article including, without limitation, the
furnishing of false information regarding the expected size or use of a
proposed development, shall be a violation of this article.
   (6)   The captions used in this article are for convenience only and shall
not affect the interpretation of any portion of the text of this article.
   (7)   If any paragraph, section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of
this article is, for any reason, held to be invalid, inconsistent with the
provisions of the Idaho impact fee act, section 67-8201 et seq., Idaho Code,
unconstitutional and/or unenforceable, such provisions shall be deemed to be
separate, distinct and independent and the remaining provisions of this article
shall continue in full force and effect. (Ord. 3642, 1-21-2025)
10-03-15 BUSINESS LICENSING:
   (1)   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to maintain an accurate
listing of the trades, businesses, and professions located in the city in order
to:
      A.   Further the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Caldwell
so that the city, especially the police, paramedics, and firefighters, have
knowledge of the materials and activities present within such businesses in the
event of emergencies; and
      B.   Allow the city and other interested parties to better communicate
with the Caldwell business community and comprehend the business categories
that may be over or under served in the area.
   (2)   License Required: No person shall establish, engage in, operate, or
carry on any trade, business or profession within the limits of the city until
such person or entity has obtained a business license with the city as
described in this section.
   (3)   More Than One Business at Same Location: In every case where more than
one business, trade or profession shall be pursued or carried on in the same
place by the same person at the same time, a license must be taken out for each
business accordingly.
   (4)   Business Use, Name, Owner or Occupant Changes: When a business name,
business use, business occupant or business owner changes, the business owner
is responsible for obtaining from, and completing and submitting to Planning
and Zoning, an application for a revised business permit.
   (5)   Payment of Fees; License Issuance: Every trade, business, or
profession shall pay a fee to the planning and zoning department with the
submission of their application. Such fee amounts are adopted by resolution of
the city council.
   (6)   Contents and Authority of Licenses: Every license issued pursuant to
this chapter shall contain and set forth the name, location, and type of each
trade, business or profession for which such license is granted. Said license
shall authorize the continuance of the business named therein for the term of
such license, unless the place registered shall be closed. In such cases,
planning and zoning shall be notified of the business closure and shall note
the same in the register of licenses.
   (7)   License Issuance: No license shall be issued for the conduct of any
business, if the premises and/or building to be used for the purpose do not
fully comply with the requirements of the municipality and this chapter or are
in violation of any provision of Caldwell City Code, or have active violations
of the city code.
   (8)   Display of License: All active business licenses shall be posted and
on display in a conspicuous place upon the business premises.
   (9)   Term of License: Licenses shall be valid for one (1) year, expiring on
December 31st of each year. Each general business license shall be renewed
before December 31st upon request to the planning and zoning department along
with payment of the annual fee. Failure to renew a license shall result in the
license becoming invalid.
   (10)   Violation and Penalties:
      A.   Violation; Penalty: If any person, persons, or entities exercise or
carry on any trade, business or profession without first receiving a license
from the city, or fail to renew a license, as required by this section, or
violate any of the provisions of this section, he, she, or they shall be guilty
of a civil infraction offense, punishable as provided by this chapter and Idaho
Code. Unresolved fees may result in a lien being placed on the property.
Unresolved violations may result in a misdemeanor citation.
      B.   Violation; Withholding: The City may withhold any approval and/or
permit for any and all proposed activities or uses on any real property with
outstanding violations of this title, except that such approval and/or permit
shall not be withheld where such withholding would adversely affect the public
health, safety, or general welfare. (Ord. 3642, 1-21-2025)
10-03-16 ALTERNATIVE METHODS OF COMPLIANCE:
   (1)   Purpose and Applicability: It is recognized by the City that the
regulations of Caldwell Chapter 10, Zoning Regulations cannot anticipate all
specific circumstances of individual development applications. It is also
recognized that there may be applications or solutions which are in keeping
with the spirit and intent of these Articles but were not anticipated in a
specific regulation. Therefore, planning and zoning may allow for an
alternative method of compliance of the articles or sections specified in 10-
03-16 (2) when explicit compliance is not feasible and the alternative complies
with the spirit and intent of the applicable code and furthers the purposes of
said applicable code to the same extent, or more, than the baseline
requirement.
   (2)   
TABLE 10-03-16:
Articles and/or Sections
TABLE 10-03-16:
Articles and/or Sections
Off Street Parking Standards
Fencing
Landscaping, Buffering, and Screening
Design Review
Site Design and Development Standards
Mixed Use Districts
Overlay Districts
Specific Use Provisions
Multi-Family Developments
Other articles as determined by the Community Development Director
 
   (3)   Conditions: Requests for alternative compliance are allowed only when
one (1) or more of the following conditions are also met:
      A.   Topography, soil, vegetation, an unusually shaped lot, or other site
conditions exist that make full compliance impossible or impractical;
      B.   Safety considerations make alternative compliance desirable;
      C.   Other regulatory agencies or departments having jurisdiction are
requiring designs that conflict with the articles noted in the table above;
      D.   An alternative design method would provide additional environmental
quality benefits;
      E.   The proposed alternative includes innovative design features based
on smart growth principles, a unique targeted demographic, or other
architectural and/or site design features that promote placemaking and
walkable, mixed-use neighborhoods;
      F.   When a project contains deed restricted affordable housing.
   (4)   Standard and Precedent: Any proposed alternative method of compliance
shall demonstrate an equal or superior means of compliance, and any approval
thereof shall not establish any precedent for acceptance in other cases.
   (5)   Required Findings: In order to grant approval for an Alternative
Method of Compliance to this chapter, the Director shall determine the
following:
      A.   Alternative is consistent with the purpose of the applicable article
or a specific master plan;
      B.   Strict adherence or application of the requirements are not
feasible;
      C.   The alternative method of compliance provides an equal or superior
means for meeting the requirements;
      D.   The alternative means will not adversely affect a neighboring
property or resident and will not be materially detrimental to the public
welfare or impair the intended uses and character of the surrounding
properties;
      E.   Reflects an innovative or unique design that conforms to the
requirements of the applicable article to the greatest extent possible but
offers alternatives for addressing the intent of the standards by maintaining
or exceeding the standards; and/or,
      F.   Includes a design required to maintain consistency and compatibility
within an existing development.
   (6)   Minimum Submittal Requirements:
      A.   Narrative describing the proposed alternative(s), the specific
standard(s) requiring deviation, and how the proposed alternative(s) is an
equal or superior means of meeting each applicable standard that is part of the
request.
      B.   Detailed site, landscape, and/or building elevations (preferably
both architectural and color renderings) depicting the proposed alternative.
(Ord. 3642, 1-21-2025)
10-03-17 PERFORMANCE BONDING:
   (1)   Purpose: The purpose of this Article is to establish procedures that
guarantee the completion of required project improvements where City Engineer
signature on a final plat or occupancy of a structure is desired, but the
improvements required by the City have not been completed.
   (2)   Applicability: The provisions of this Article shall apply to those
improvements that are not needed to protect public health, safety and life
including, but not limited to: landscaping, required fencing, site amenities,
and pathways. Those improvements that are needed to protect the public health,
safety and life (including, but not limited to, water, sewer, reclaimed water,
stormwater facilities or improvements, and power facilities; parking lot paving
and striping; and street paving) shall be subject to the financial guarantee
standards and procedures of the Caldwell Engineering Department (Section
11-04-07). This section may be applicable to sidewalks on a case-by-case basis.
   (3)   Standards:
      A.   The City may withhold building, electrical or plumbing permits,
certificates of compliance, or certificates of occupancy on the lots or land
being developed or subdivided, or the structures constructed thereon, if the
improvements required under this title or by previous approvals have not been
constructed or installed, or if such improvements are not functioning properly.
      B.   In the event that an applicant and/or owner cannot complete the non-
life, non-safety and non-health improvements, such as landscaping, amenities,
pathways and pathway signage, and any required fencing, prior to City Engineer
signature on the final plat for a subdivision, and/or prior to occupancy for
developments that did not require platting, a surety agreement may be approved
in accord with the procedures set forth in this section. The estimated cost for
sureties (bids for the work to be completed) shall be provided by the applicant
and reviewed and approved by the Director. The amount of surety called for
shall be one hundred and fifty percent (150%) of the bid amount. In structures
with multiple tenants, arrangements can be made to provide occupancy up to a
certain amount with a bond in place.
      C.   Sureties shall be in the form of a surety bond, a cashier’s check,
or a cash deposit. In all cases the surety shall be drawn solely in favor of,
and payable to, the order of the City of Caldwell, in accord with the
regulations contained in the surety agreement by and between the guarantor and
the City of Caldwell.
      D.   Prior to acceptance of any surety bond, the applicant shall provide
the following information at a minimum:
         1.   Individual bids for each improvement being requested to be bonded
for;
         2.   A written explanation of why the improvements cannot be
constructed prior to occupancy or plat signature, and;
         3.   A site plan (scaled) or plat depicting the proposed improvements
to be bonded for.
      E.   Where a surety is accepted by the City and deposited as provided by
this article, the surety shall be released subject to the following
regulations:
         1.   The owner shall submit a written request to the City to release
the surety. The request shall include the following documents:
            (i)   A statement from the owner that the required improvements are
complete.
            (ii)   A set of plans depicting the improvements that are now
complete.
         2.   The Director shall verify and certify that the required
improvements, as detailed in the surety agreement, have been installed and/or
accepted by the City at the end of the noted period.
         3.   Upon certification of the Director, the City shall release the
sureties heretofore deposited in the manner and to the extent provided for in
the surety agreement in accord with the regulations of this article.
      F.   All improvements related to public life, safety and health shall be
completed in accordance with Section 11-04-07. (Ord. 3642, 1-21-2025)
10-03-18 DENSITY BONUS PROGRAM:
   (1)   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to implement the
recommendations and goals of the Caldwell Comprehensive Plan by creating an
optional incentive program with consistent criteria and standards for
additional housing density to support a variety of housing choices,
affordability, availability, and other desirable services and amenities in the
local community.
   (2)   Applicability: This section is applicable to all developments
containing residential uses within the City of Caldwell, as outlined in the
comprehensive plan and zoning ordinance. Except for those developments located
within the Neighborhood 1 place type, Conservation Area Development shall
dictate the available density as outlined in
10-05-07-1(2).
      A.   
Table 2 below shall not apply to development in the downtown districts,
however, the criteria shall guide any density bonus in those districts with
approval of a special use permit by Council.
   (3)   Criteria and Standards:
      A.   General Standards:
         1.   Affordable housing units (for rent or for ownership) shall be
deemed affordable through deed restrictions at different income levels as noted
in
Table 2 below.
         2.   In the case of affordable housing units, said units shall be
mixed with, and not clustered together or segregated from, market-rate units.
         3.   All zoning regulations not noted in this section as a density
bonus criterion must be adhered to unless otherwise approved through the
applicable public hearing process.
      B.   Criteria:
         1.   Affordable Units: Deed-restricted housing for which the household
is paying no more than 30 percent of their gross income for rental or mortgage
payments. Units shall be deed restricted for households with incomes as
outlined in
Table 2 below, based on the US Housing and Urban Development’s local Annual
Median Income (AMI);
         2.   Universal Design: Units meeting the following standards:
            (A)   Zero-step entrances into the home/units;
            (B)   At least one entrance shall have a 36-inch door;
            (C)   Interior doors with 32-inch clearance, except for a door that
provides access to a closet of fewer than 15 square feet;
            (D)   Maximum ½” vertical change at thresholds;
            (E)   Each hallway shall have a width of at least 36 inches and
shall be level with ramped or beveled changes at each door threshold;
            (F)   At least one bathroom on the main floor that is accessible to
a wheelchair;
            (G)   At least one bedroom on the main floor with a closet that has
closet rods and shelves adjustable from 3' to 5'6" high.
         3.   Age-In-Place: Age-In Place units shall meet all of the universal
design criteria as specified in 10-03-18 (3) 2, in addition to the following:
            (A)   Single-story units;
            (B)   All bathrooms shall have reinforced walls around the toilet
for potential installation of grab bars. Walls around the shower and tub shall
be reinforced for potential installation of grab bars or a pre-manufactured tub
and shower surround may be used which includes grab bar(s) certified to meet
the ADA requirement to bear a 250-pound load;
            (C)   Switches, outlets and thermostats at 15" to 48" above the
floor.
            (D)   Each electrical panel shall be mounted no higher than 48
inches above the floor, except, an electrical panel located outside the
dwelling unit shall be between 18 inches and 42 inches above the ground and
served by an accessible route;
            (E)   All hardware installed to open/close doors and operate
plumbing fixtures shall be lever handles;
            (F)   All light switches shall have rocker type light switches;
            (G)   All closets shall have rods and shelves adjustable from 3' to
5'6" high.
         4.   Amenities above any minimum code requirements where none are
required by code;
         5.   Housing Diversity: A mix of housing options within a singular
development that caters to various lifestyles and preferences. This includes a
mix of smaller and larger homes, duplexes, triplexes, fourplexes, multi-family
apartments, patio homes, cottage courts, and/or homes constructed with
accessory dwelling units);
         6.   Open Spaces: Dedication to the City and/or amounts above code
minimums;
         7.   Regional Connectivity above City requirements;
         8.   The inclusion of specific uses the city has deemed needed or
desirable for the community.
      C.   Density Bonus Points System: The Caldwell density bonus program
shall be based upon a points system where portions of and up to the full
density bonus, as outlined below, is available. The points system outlines the
ratio of density bonus to the specific incentive criteria available to
developments. The city understands that not all situations can be accounted for
within code and some alternatives to Table 2 may be discussed with the Director
on a case-by-case basis:
      D.   Density Allowances:
Table 1:
Comprehensive Compatible                                       Density Bonus &
Plan Land Use Zoning Districts Minimum Density Maximum Density Conservation
Designation                                                    Area Development
Table 1:
Comprehensive   Compatible                                      Density Bonus &
Plan Land Use   Zoning          Minimum Density Maximum Density Conservation
Designation     Districts                                       Area
                                                                Development
                                                                3 du/ac if
                                                                conservation
                                                                area
Neighborhood 1  RS-1, RS-2      0 du/ac         2 du/ac         development is
                                                                used. Refer to
                                                                Chapter 10,
                                                                Article 5
Neighborhood 2  R-1, R-2, C-1,  2 du/ac         8 du/ac         Up to 12 du/ac2
                P-D
Neighborhood 3  R-2, R-3, C-1,  4 du/ac         20 du/ac        Up to 25 du/ac
                C-2, P-D
Urban           R-2, R-3, C-1,  4 du/ac         10 du/ac        Up to 16 du/ac
Neighborhood    T-N, P-D
Community       R-2, R-3, C-1,
Center          C-2, C-3, H-C,  8 du/ac         15 du/ac        Up to 25 du/ac
                P-D
Mixed Use       R-3, C-2, C-3,  10 du/ac        25 du/ac        Up to 40 du/ac
Center          C-4, H-C, P-D
Downtown        D-CBD, D-CC, T- 25 du/ac3       60 du/ac        60+ du/ac
                N, P-D
                                Residential is
                C-1, C-2, C-3,  not a permitted
Employment      C-4, M-1, M-2,  use in the
Center          I-P, A-D, P-D,  Employment
                H-C             Center
                                designation.
                                Refer to
                                Chapter 10,
                                Article 9 for
                A-D, C-D, H-D,  density
Special Purpose P-D             allowances in
                                these zoning
                                districts and
                                within this
                                place type.
Table Footnotes: 
1 Neighborhood 1 place type is subject to the Conservation Area Development
shall dictate the available density program as outlined in 10-03-18-1 below.
2Density bonus is not applicable to parcels within the R-1 zone.
3Density minimum is not applicable in the T-N nor D-CB zones for directly
permitted uses.
 
         1.   Points System: In order to receive the full density bonus
outlined in this section and within the Comprehensive Plan, a minimum of four
(4) criteria points need to be met. Otherwise the following ratios shall be the
maximum density bonus allowed based upon the point total obtained by the
development proposal:
            (A)   ½-point shall equal 10% of the available density bonus (if
the 10% is less than 1 du/ac, a minimum of 1 du/ac shall be the available
density bonus).
            (B)   1-point shall equal 25% of the available density bonus.
            (C)   2-points shall equal 50% of the available density bonus.
            (D)   3-points shall equal 75% of the available density bonus.
            (E)   4-points shall equal the full, 100%, of the available density
bonus.
         2.   Density Bonus Points System Table:
Table 2:
Points:
Criteria: ½-point1-point 2-points 3-points 4-points
Table 2:
Points:
Criteria:    ½-point     1-point      2-points     3-points                                                                      4-points
                          25% of the   50% of the
                          rental units rental units
                          deed         deed
                          restricted   restricted
                          for          for          25% of the rental units deed restricted for very low income households, and   80% of all rental units deed restricted for extremely low, very low and/or low
                          extremely    extremely    25% deed restricted for low income households OR 75% deed restricted for low  income households, with 10% deed restricted for moderate income households, as
                          low, very    low, very    income households as defined in                                               defined in
                          low, and/or  low and/or   10-01-10                                                                      10-01-20. 10% may be market value households
                          low income   low income
                          households   households,
                          as defined   as defined
Affordable                in           in
Units                     10-01-10    10-01-10
                          OR           OR           OR                                                                            OR
                          25% of the   Half of the
                          for-sale     for-sale
                          units/lots   units/lots
                          deed         deed
                          restricted   restricted   75% of for-sale units/lots deed restricted for households making 120% of AMI  All for-sale units/lots deed restricted for households making 120% of AMI or
                          for          for          or less                                                                       less
                          households   households
                          making 120%  making 120%
                          of AMI or    of AMI or
                          less         less
                          50% of all   All units /
                          units /homes homes
                          constructed  constructed
                          with the     with the
Universal                 universal    noted        50% of all units / homes constructed as “Age-in-place” units as specified All units / homes constructed as “Age-in-place” units as specified in this
Design                   design       universal    this section.                                                                 section.
                          standards    design
                          specified in standards
                          this         specified in
                          section.     this
                                       section.
                          In regular
                          subdivisions
                          where no
                          amenities
                          are required
                          by code,
                          inclusion of
Amenities                a minimum of                                                                                           
                          four (4)
                          amenities
                          approved
                          through the
                          public
                          hearing
                          process
                          A minimum of
                          25% of the
                          homes
                          constructed  Incorporate
                          with an      a minimum of
Housing                  Accessory    three (3)                                                                                  
Variation                 Dwelling     types of
                          Unit (ADU)   housing1
                          compliant
                          with all
                          City
                          regulations
                          50%          Double (100%
                          additional   additional)
Open Spaces              qualified    the minimum  Dedication of land for a public park to the City of at least 10 acres in size Dedication of land and construction of a public park to the City of at least
                          open space   qualified                                                                                  10 acres in size and in accordance with City standards
                          above code   open space
                          minimums
             Construction
             of regional
             multi-use
             facilities
Regional     beyond those
Connectivity required by                                                                                                        
             the
             applicable
             master plan
             and approved
             by the City
                          Dedication
                          of land for
                          use by the   Construction
                          City for     of a public
                          public       amenity as
                          amenities or approved by
Inclusion of              services of  City Council
Specific                 at least 5   (i.e.        Mixed-Use Center Place Type - Dedication of land to the City large enough to  All other Place Types - Dedication of land to the City large enough to
Uses                      acres in     library,     construct a Fire Station and/or Police Substation2                            construct a Fire Station and/or Police Substation2
                          size, OR     community
                          dedication   center,
                          of land      recreation
                          acceptable   center,
                          to and for a etc.)2
                          public
                          school.3
Table Footnotes:
1   Each housing type must account for a minimum of 25% of the units/lots to receive the density bonus points. Single-family homes shall include a mix of smaller and larger sized homes (single-family
residential lot types with an area difference of 200% or more shall qualify as a mix of housing types for the purposes of this table).
2   Location must be approved by the appropriate City official.
3   Location must be approved and acceptable by the school district in which the land is located.
 
      E.   Minimum Design Standards:
         1.   For projects that utilize any deed restricted affordable housing
as outlined herein, the following minimum design standards shall be required:
            (A)   A minimum of two (2) distinct primary materials and colors
shall be used with a minimum of one (1) distinct accent material and color;
said accent color shall be different than the primary color.
            (B)   Unfinished or colored ordinary smooth face block, untextured
concrete panels, and prefabricated steel panels (i.e. non-insulated metal
siding) are prohibited as primary materials but may be used as accent
materials.
            (C)   Smooth vinyl siding is prohibited; textured vinyl siding
(such as fiber cement board, Hardie-board, etc., or similar) is permitted
provided it does not include a blank wall segment of more than 300 square feet
on any elevation. A mix of material patterns is encouraged when textured vinyl
siding is utilized, including, but not limited to: board and batten, horizontal
and vertical lap, shake, or shingles.
            (D)   Physically heavier and more robust materials such as
concrete, masonry, stone, or similar materials are encouraged along all street
facing elevations.
            (E)   If a multi-story structure is proposed, an accent material or
other architectural element shall be utilized to delineate between each floor
to separate the bottom, middle, top, etc.
            (F)   At least one type of modulation is required on any façade
plane that is visible from a public street or public space. Qualifying
modulation includes projections, recesses, and step backs that break up
building mass. Modulation shall be a minimum width and depth of one (1) foot
and encompass at least 25% of the façade area.
            (G)   Any combination of material, color, modulation, or other
articulation shall be used to delineate and break up wall planes greater than
three hundred (300) square feet in area and/or between each dwelling unit.
(Ord. 3663, 4-21-2025)
ARTICLE 4: INDIVIDUAL MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME UNITS
(Rep. by Ord. 2230, 5-4-1998)
ARTICLE 5: RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
Section
   
10-05-01      General Regulations
   
10-05-02      Districts
   
10-05-03      Uses
   
10-05-04      Bulk and Dimensional Standards
   
10-05-05      Density Allowances
   
10-05-06      Development Options
   
10-05-07      Supplemental Development Standards
   
10-05-07-1   RS-1 And RS- Zones:
   
10-05-07-2   Dwelling - Two-Family (Duplex) Standards
10-05-01 GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   (1)   Applicability: The zoning district regulations and standards
established in this section shall apply to all residential zoning districts
established in this section, unless specifically stated otherwise in a specific
article in this chapter. (Ord. 3664, 4-21-2025)
10-05-02 DISTRICTS:
   (1)   Intent: Caldwell’s residential (R) zoning districts are primarily
intended to create, maintain, and promote a variety of housing opportunities
for individual households and to maintain the desired physical character of
existing and developing neighborhoods. While the districts primarily
accommodate residential use types, some nonresidential uses are also allowed.
The R district standards provide development flexibility, while at the same
time helping to ensure that new development is compatible with the city’s many
neighborhoods. In addition, the regulations offer certainty for property
owners, developers, and neighbors about the limits of what is allowed.
   (2)   District Map Symbol / Names: The city’s residential zoning districts
are listed below. Changes have been made to the zoning district names, which
has no impact on current land use entitlements or property rights.
      When this zoning and development code refers to “residential” zoning
districts or “R”, “RS” districts, it refers to these districts.
 
Old Zoning Map Old District Name   New Zoning Map Symbol New District Name
Symbol
RS-1           Residential Estates RS-1                  Semi-Rural
                                                         Residential - 1
RS-2           Residential Semi-   RS-2                  Semi-Rural
               Rural                                     Residential - 2
R-1            Low Density         R-1                   Neighborhood
               Residential                               Residential
R-2            Medium Density      R-2                   Community Residential
               Residential
R-3            High Density        R-3                   Urban Residential
               Residential
 
   (3)   District Purpose Statements:
      A.   RS-1 ZONE: The purpose of this zone is to provide areas by zoning
procedures in accordance with the comprehensive plan that provides areas which
are characterized by large residential lots that help transition Caldwell’s
denser neighborhoods to the agricultural surroundings. This zone accommodates
low-density single-family residential dwelling units (including accessory
dwelling units) and agricultural type land uses, while protecting and enhancing
surrounding county areas that are more rural in character. The RS-1 district is
applied to areas that are at the outer edge of the city, closest to the
boundary between the city’s planning area and the county’s planning area.
      B.   RS-2 ZONE: The purpose of this zone is to provide areas by zoning
procedures in accordance with the comprehensive plan that provides areas which
are characterized by large residential lots, although slightly smaller
residential lots than within the RS-1 zone, that accommodate low density
single-family residential dwelling units (including accessory dwelling units).
The RS-2 zone serves as a transition between Caldwell’s denser neighborhoods
and the RS-1 zone.
      C.   R-1 ZONE: The purpose of this zone is to provide areas by zoning
procedures in accordance with the comprehensive plan that accommodate single-
family residential (including accessory dwelling units), townhomes, and
duplexes. Small-scale commercial uses may be found at major intersections of
arterial and collector roadways, along highway frontages, or as part of a
planned unit development or master planned community, in order to provide
greater access of services to the surrounding neighborhoods.
      D.   R-2 ZONE: The purpose of this zone is to provide areas by zoning
procedures in accordance with the comprehensive plan that accommodates a larger
variety of lot sizes and housing types. This includes single-family residential
(including accessory dwelling units) and missing middle housing types such as
townhomes, duplexes, triplexes, fourplexes, cottage courts, small scale multi-
family, or mansion house apartments. Supporting or secondary land uses may
include small-scale mixed-use or live/work housing types, and commercial
activities and services that are generally only found at major intersections of
arterial and collector roadways.
      E.   R-3 ZONE: The purpose of this zone is to provide areas by zoning
procedures in accordance with the comprehensive plan that which allows for
multifamily, townhomes, row-housing, mixed-use buildings, and live/work units.
Single family may be present in forms such as small lot development, infill, or
cottage courts. This zone is situated along or near major streets such as
collectors and arterials. It is also generally located near pedestrian
connections and commercial services. Supporting or secondary land uses may
include medium scale commercial along major roadways or within a mixed-use
development. This district may serve as a buffer between R-2 Zones and
nonresidential or mixed-use zones. (Ord. 3664, 4-21-2025)
10-05-03 USES:
   (1)   Purpose: This section sets forth the permitted and specially permitted
uses Caldwell’s residential zoning districts. For Overlay Zoning Districts, see
Chapter 10, Article 11.
   (2)   Explanation and Key to Land Use Table Abbreviations:
      A.   Permitted Uses (P): A “P” in a cell indicates that a use is allowed
by right in the respective zoning district. Permitted uses are subject to all
other applicable regulations of this zoning ordinance.
      B.   Administrative Development Review (ADR): An “ADR” in a cell
indicates the use is allowed by right but requires the submission of an
Administrative Review application and the issuance of a Certificate of Zoning
Compliance prior to submission of building permits and the commencement of any
construction. In addition, all land uses allowed by right in which a building
permit is not required will require the submission of an Administrative
Development Review (ADR) application to allow for the review of the land use,
site plan, parking, landscaping and compliance with all other applicable city
code regulations and laws.
      C.   Special Use Permit (SUP). A “SUP” in a cell indicates that the use
is allowed in the respective zoning district only if reviewed and approved as a
special use, by the commission or hearing examiner in accordance with the
special use permit procedures of this chapter. A “
         1.   Special uses are subject to all other applicable regulations of
this chapter.
         2.   The “SUP” or “SUP/C” designation in a given district does not
constitute an authorization or assurance that such use will be permitted.
Rather, each special use permit application shall be evaluated as to its
probable effect on adjacent properties and surrounding areas, among other
factors, and may be approved, approved with conditions, or denied pursuant to
the procedures in Section
10-03-04, Special Use Permits.
      D.   Uses Accessory to the Principal Use (A). An “A” in a cell indicates
the land use is permitted only as an accessory land use to an approved
principal use only.
      E.   Temporary Use Only (TUP). A “TUP” in any cell indicates that the use
is only permitted as a temporary use only. Temporary use permits may be
required in accordance with Section
10-12-03-34.
      F.   Specific Use Provisions (*). A “*” in any cell indicates that
regardless of whether a use is allowed by right, or as a special use, temporary
use, or accessory use, additional standards may be applicable to the use. Refer
to
Chapter 10, Article 12 of this chapter for Specific Use Provisions.
      G.   Uses Not Allowed. An empty cell indicates that the use is not
allowed in the respective zoning district.
   (3)   Classification of New and Unlisted Uses:
      A.   If a proposed use of property is not specifically listed in this
table, the use shall be prohibited unless the Director, upon the request of an
applicant, determines that a proposed use not listed in this table, is
equivalent to a listed permitted or special use. In making the decision, the
Director shall consider the following:
         1.   The impacts on public services and activities associated with the
proposed use are substantially similar to those of 1 or more of the uses listed
in the applicable base districts as allowed.
         2.   The proposed use shall not involve a higher level of activity or
density than 1 or more of the uses listed in the applicable base districts as
allowed.
         3.   The proposed use is consistent with the purpose of the district
in which the use is proposed to be located.
         4.   The proposed use is in substantial conformance with the goals and
objectives of the Comprehensive Plan.
         5.   The Director may also use past precedent, case law, and legal
opinion in making the determination.
         6.   When considering a use not listed in the table, the Director
shall also determine whether additional use-specific standards are necessary.
      B.   If the Director denies an application for such a requested use, the
applicant shall have the right, within the period of ten (10) days from the
date of such disapproval, to appeal the Director’s decision to the City
Council. The decision of the City Council shall be final.
   (4)   Mix of Uses/ Buildings:
      A.   RS-1, RS-2, and R-1 Zones: In RS-1, RS-2, and R-1, only one
principal structure or building may be built upon a single parcel or lot,
except as it may be otherwise specified in this article and/or as part of a
planned unit development.
      B.   R-2 and R-3 Zone:
         1.   More than one classification of uses and more than one use within
these use classifications shall be permitted on a lot or parcel without a
planned unit development application, provided the proposed individual uses are
permitted uses or special uses.
         2.   More than one principal structure or building, without having a
planned unit development, are allowed upon a single development site, with the
exception of a site utilized for or containing a single-family residence.
         3.   In the case of a proposed special use, such application should
proceed through the standard procedures of a special use permit application.
      C.   Residential uses are prohibited along the frontage of all arterial
roadways and highways within the Mixed-Use or Community Center place types, as
designated on the Future Land Use Map, unless part of a Mixed-Use Small-Scale
or Mixed-Use Large-Scale building in compliance with section
10-12-03-25.
   (5)   Land Use Schedule:
Table 10-05-03:
Land Use Schedule for (RS-1, RS-2, R-1, R-2, R-3) 5, 9, 10, 12, 16
Table 10-05-03:
Land Use Schedule for (RS-1, RS-2, R-1, R-2, R-3) 5, 9, 10, 12, 16
P                          Permitted
A                          Permitted as an Accessory Use to a Legal Primary Use
ADR                        Requires Administrative Site/Development Review
SUP                        Requires a Special Use Permit
SUP/C                      Requires a Special Use Permit at City Council Level
TUP                        Permitted as a Temporary Use with a Temporary Use
                           Permit
Blank Cell                 Not Permitted
*                          Land Use is subject to Special Use Provisions
Land Uses                  RS-1   RS-2   R-1    R-2    R-3
Accessory Buildings and    P      P      P      P      P
Uses *
Adult Business                                      
Agriculture, General       P      P      P      P      P
Airplane / Helicopter      SUP                       
Hanger
Airplane, Landing Strip    SUP                       
Ambulance Service          P2     P2     P2     P2     P2
Artist Studio / Gallery *              P2     P2     P2
Arts, Entertainment and
Recreation Facilities                  P2     P2     P2
(Indoor) *
Arts, Entertainment and
Recreation Facilities                  SUP2   SUP2   SUP2
(Outdoor) *
Automotive - Body Shop                 SUP2,7 SUP2,7 SUP2,7
Automotive - Car Wash *                SUP2   SUP2   SUP2
Automotive - Gas / Service                          
Station *
Bail Bond Use                                      P2
Brewery - Small Scale                  P2,6   P2,6   P2,6
Cemetery                   SUP    SUP                 
Churches / Places of       SUP    SUP    SUP    SUP    SUP
Religious Worship *
Clinic / Hospital - Large  SUP2   SUP2   P2     P2     P2
Animal
Clinic / Hospital - Small              P2     P2     P2
Animal
Club / Lodge                           P2     P2     P2
Community Center (private)             SUP    SUP    SUP
Community Garden           P      P      P      P      P
Condominiums (Residential  Any permitted project may go through the condo plat
or Non-Residential)        process. See Definition of Condominium in Section
                           10-01-10
Conference / Convention                            SUP2
Center
Correctional / Detention                            
Facilities
Cottage Industries                                  
Dance Hall / Night Club                            SUP2
Daycare Home - Family/     P      P      P      P      P
Group (12 or <) *
Daycare Center (13 or >) *             P2     P2     P2
Distillery - Small Scale                     SUP2   SUP2
Donation Containers or     TUP    TUP    TUP    TUP    TUP
Storage Pods *
Land Uses                  RS-1   RS-2   R-1    R-2    R-3
Drinking Establishments *                    SUP2   SUP2
Dwelling - Accessory       P1     P1     P1     P1     P1
Dwelling Unit (ADU) *
Dwelling - Caretaker       A      A      A      A      A
Dwelling - Cottage Courts  SUP    SUP    SUP    P      P
/ Housing
Dwelling - Group Home /
Residence (8 or <          P      P      P      P      P
residents)
Dwelling - Group Home /
Residence (9 or >                      SUP/C  SUP    SUP
residents)
Dwelling - Live / Work                       SUP7   P7
Dwelling - Multifamily                       P      P
(Triplex)
Dwelling - Multifamily                       P      P
(Fourplex)
Dwelling - Multifamily                       P12    P12
Apartments (Small Scale)
Dwelling - Multifamily                             SUP/C
Apartments (Large Scale)
Dwelling - Single Family;  P      P      P      P      P
Detached
Dwelling - Single Family;  P      P      P      P      P
Manufactured Home*
Dwelling - Single Family;  SUP    SUP                 
Mobile Home
Dwelling - Single Family;                           
Townhouse
(3 or < attached)                      P      P      P
Dwelling - Single Family;                           
Townhouse
(4 or > attached)                            P      P
Dwelling - Transitional                            SUP
Home
Dwelling - Two-Family                  P      P      P
(Duplex)
Equipment Repair & Service                   P2     P2
- Small*
Equipment Repair & Service                   P2     P2
- Household *
Event Center                                 SUP2   SUP2
Financial Institution            P2     P2     P2     P2
Financial Institution            P2     P2     P2     P2
(with drive through) *
Fitness Facility -Large          SUP2   P2     P2     P2
Fitness Facility - Small               SUP2   SUP2   P2
Flea Market (Indoors)                               
Flex Space *                           SUP2   SUP2   SUP2
Food Bank / Soup Kitchen                     SUP2   SUP2
Fraternity / Sorority                        SUP    SUP
House
Funeral Home               SUP2   SUP2   SUP2   SUP2   SUP2
Greenhouse - Commercial    SUP2,7 SUP2,7 SUP2,7 SUP2,7 SUP2,7
Greenhouse - Personal      P      P      P      P      P
Hospital                         P2     P2     P2     P2
Landscaping Business                               SUP2
Library                                P2     P2     P2
Lodging - Bed and          SUP    SUP    SUP    SUP    P
Breakfast Inn
Manufactured Home                SUP    SUP    SUP    SUP
Community / Development
Mixed Use - Small Scale*                     SUP2,4 P4
Mixed Use - Large Scale*                           SUP2,4
Mobile Food Unit *                                 SUP2
Land Uses                  RS-1   RS-2   R-1    R-2    R-3
Mobile Food Unit Parks /                           SUP2
Courts*
Mortuary                               P2     P2     P2
Museum                                             P2
Nursing and Residential                      SUP2   SUP2
Care Facility
Offices - (Medical /                   SUP2   SUP2   SUP2
Dental / Healthcare)
Parking Garage - Private                           SUP
Parking Garage - Public                            SUP
Parking Lot - Accessory    A      A      A      A      A
(Private)
Pawnshop                                            
Payday Loan & Title Loan                            
Establishments
Personal Services                P2     P2     P2     P2
Professional Services            P2     P2     P2     P2
Public Administrative      SUP    SUP    P      P      P
Offices
Public Facility / Building SUP    SUP    P      P      P
Public Utility Yard        SUP    SUP    SUP    SUP    SUP
Recreational Vehicle (RV)  SUP    SUP                 
Park
Restaurant - Full Service        P2,6   P2,6   P2,6   P2,6
Restaurant - Limited             P2,6   P2,6   P2,6   P2,6
Service
Restaurant - Snack and           P2,6   P2,6   P2,6   P2,6
Nonalcoholic Beverage Bars
Retail Sales - Boutique (<       P2    P2     P2     P2
5,000 sq. ft.)
Retail Sales - Limited           P2     P2     P2     P2
(5,001 - 10,000 sq. ft.)
Retail Sales - Semi-
Limited (10,001 - 30,000               SUP2   SUP2   P2,6
sq. ft.)
Retail Sales - General                       SUP2   SUP2
(30,001 - 80,000 sq. ft.)
Retail Sales - Fireworks               P14    P14    P14
(Temporary Stands)
Retail Sales - Fireworks                            
(Permanent)
Retail Sales - Liquor                  SUP2,8 SUP2,8 SUP2,8
Store
Retail Sales - Nursery           SUP2               SUP2
Retail Sales - Sales Lots*                         SUP2
Retail Sales - Secondhand        SUP2   SUP2   SUP2   SUP2
/ Thrift Stores
Retail Sales - Tire Shop                            
Retail Sales - Tobacco /               SUP2   SUP2   SUP2
Vape Shop*
Retail Sales Store w/      SUP    SUP    SUP2   SUP2   P2,6
Gasoline*
Riding School (academy) or P      P                   
Stable
Rooming / Boarding House                     SUP    P
Schools - Commercial                               P2
Schools - Post Secondary   SUP    SUP    SUP    SUP    SUP
(private)
Schools - Post Secondary   P      P      P      P      P
(public)*
Schools - Primary and      SUP    SUP    SUP    SUP    SUP
Secondary (private)
Schools - Primary and      P      P      P      P      P
Secondary (public)*
Security Guard Quarters    A      A      A      A      A
Shelter - Day                                SUP    SUP
Shelter - Emergency                          P      P
Land Uses                  RS-1   RS-2   R-1    R-2    R-3
Shelter - Homeless                           SUP    SUP
Storage - Self Service                              
(indoors)
Storage - Self Service                 SUP13  SUP13   
(traditional)
Tattoo / Body Piercing                 SUP2   SUP2   SUP2
Studio
Taxidermy Shop                   P2     P2     P2     P2
Temporary Uses             See Section
                           10-12-03-34
Therapy / Rehabilitation               P2     P2     P2
Facility
Transit Station                                     
U-Pick Farm                P      P                   
Wholesale Sales - General                          SUP2
Wholesale Sales - Nursery        SUP2               SUP2
Winery / Cidery*           P      P                   
Winetasting Establishment  SUP2,3 SUP2,3 P2     P2     P2
Wireless Communication     SUP    SUP    SUP    SUP    SUP
Facility - Large Scale*
Wireless Communication     ADR    ADR    ADR    ADR    ADR
Facility - Small Scale*
Zoo                        SUP    SUP                 
Table Footnotes:
1   Accessory dwelling units are only permitted in conjunction with an existing
legal single family detached homes and when in compliance with the Accessory
Use section of this code.
2   Must be located at major intersections of arterial or collector roadways or
along highway frontages, or as part of an approved Planned Unit Development.
Projects not part of a Planned Unit Development will require the submission of
site plan / landscape plan review application.
3   Permitted when accessory to a legal conforming winery or cidery, otherwise
a Special User Permit shall be required.
4   See
10-12-03 for specific use provisions.
5   Design characteristics for building placement, scale and massing, land use
transitions and density shall be in compliance with this chapter and in
conformance with the comprehensive plan.
6   Businesses with drive-in or drive-through services require a Special Use
Permit.
7   The area designated for the work component must be located on the ground
level and occupy not less than twenty-five (25) percent, and no more than fifty
(50) percent of the total gross floor area of the live/work unit. Uses for the
work component are limited to permitted or specially permitted uses (required
special use permit) within the base zoning district.
8   No liquor store or distribution station shall be located within three
hundred feet (300') of a school.
9   All Drive through establishments must meet the requirements of
Chapter 10, Article 12
10   All Establishments serving alcohol must comply with the requirements of
Chapter 10, Article 12.
11   For outdoor storage, See
Chapter 10, Article 12, Specific Use Provisions
12   See
Chapter 10, Article 12 for specific use standards not specifically listed in
this table.
13   Only allowed with a special use permit if the storage is internal to a
residential subdivision or residential development, where it is not open to the
public, and serves only the residents within the subdivision or development.
14   The retail sale of fireworks at a temporary fireworks stand requires a
fireworks permit to be obtained through the City Clerk's office and is only
permitted as allowed by the Fire Department.
16   All land uses allowed by right in which a building permit is not required
will require the submission of an Administrative Development Review (ADR)
application to allow for the review of the land use, site plan, parking,
landscaping and compliance with all other applicable city code regulations and
laws.
 
(Ord. 3664, 4-21-2025)
10-05-04 BULK AND DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
   This section contains the requirements for lot size and coverage, scale and
massing, and setbacks for all types of development. These standards may be
further limited or modified by other applicable sections of this chapter. Some
uses are subject to use-specific standards or overlay district requirements
that impose stricter requirements than set forth in this subsection.
   (1)   Setback Reduction: The minimum setback provisions may be reduced with
a Director’s administrative determination in accordance with Section
10-01-02-3, a variance approval, or a planned unit development approval,
whichever may be most applicable.
   (2)   New Construction: All new construction shall comply with the current
dimensional standard schedule in effect at the time the building permit was
filed, excluding alternative setback, height, and/or area schedule requirements
as approved through a planned unit development, Development Agreement, or other
Planning application.
   (3)   Setback Measurements: Regardless of the noted setbacks in each
section, in no case shall new construction be placed within any public right-
of-way or utility easement unless express permission has been granted by the
applicable agency/jurisdiction.
         A.   For new construction, all setbacks are measured from the property
line. When the property is constrained, an approval to modify this measurement
location may be granted by the Director after the submission of a Minor -
Administrative Determination application.
         B.   For additions to existing single-family residential structures,
front and street side yard setbacks may be measured from the back of sidewalk
or anticipated sidewalk location where no sidewalk currently exists, when the
property is constrained, and an approval is granted by the Director after the
submission of a Minor - Administrative Determination application.
         C.   All other setbacks are the distance between a building’s
outermost edge of the outermost foundation wall and the lot/property line.
   (4)   Projections:
      A.   Cornices, canopies, eaves, porches, covered patios, or other
projections which do not increase the volume of space enclosed by the building
may project into any required side yard by no more than two feet (2') and in no
case shall be closer than 3 feet from the side property line. Projections may
encroach a maximum of five feet (5') into any required rear yard setback. Said
encroachment shall be measured from the far edge of the projection, not the
footing, post, or similar.
      B.   Unenclosed porches may extend into the front setback area provided a
minimum setback of fifteen feet (15') from the back of sidewalk, or anticipated
sidewalk location where no sidewalk currently exists, is maintained. If the
living area setback is fifteen feet (15') or less, unenclosed porches may not
project into the front setback and shall comply with the living area setback
outlined in the applicable dimension table.
      C.   Exterior steps or stairs shall not project into required side yards.
      D.   No part of the building whatsoever, including cornices, canopies,
eaves, foundations, footings, air conditioning units, etc., shall extend into
any recorded or nonrecorded easement or easement area, nor any existing or
future right-of-way or right-of-way area unless the utility or agency having
jurisdiction over the easement or right-of-way has given written permission for
such projection to take place.
      E.   Should a structure be found to be in nonconformance with this
article, the following shall apply:
         1.   Structure shall be removed by and at the property owner’s expense
within five (5) days of a request by the City or utility to remove said
structure.
         2.   Structure can be removed by the City or utility after the five
(5) day deadline has expired, without the property owner’s permission and
without compensation to the property owner, and with or without notification,
as necessary for utility or right-of-way maintenance/improvements for any
existing or future public right-of-way areas or easements. Furthermore, City or
utility shall not be responsible for any damage caused to structure during the
process of removal.
         3.   Property owners shall sign and have notarized a statement
prepared by the City acknowledging the above items.
   (5)   Dimensional Standards Table: The allowances set forth below are
applicable to all residential zoning districts. All minimum standards shall be
met, along with compliance with maximum densities as specified in
10-05-05.
Table 10-05-04:
Bulk and Dimensional Standards - Residential Districts
Lot Size RS-11 RS-21 R-12 R-22 R-32
Table 10-05-04:
Bulk and Dimensional Standards - Residential Districts
Lot Size                                       RS-11  RS-21  R-12  R-22  R-32
Interior Lot Area (sq. ft.)                    40,000 20,000 8,000 4,000 2,000
Corner Lot Area (sq. ft.)                      40,000 20,000 9,500 5,000 2,500
Minimum Lot Width / Frontage (ft.)3            100    75     50    30    20
Scale and Massing                              RS-1   RS-2   R-1   R-2   R-3
Maximum Building Height (ft.)4                 45     45     30    40    45
Setbacks                                       RS-1   RS-2   R-1   R-2   R-3
Front Yard Setback, Garage; Minimum (ft.)      40     35     22    22    22
Front Setback, Living Area; Minimum (ft.)      40     30     15    15    10
Interior Side Yard Setback; Minimum (ft.)      20     15     5/05  5/05  5/05
Street Side Yard Setback; Minimum (ft.)6       30     20     15    15    15
Rear Yard Setback; Minimum (ft.)               30     30     20    15    10
Alley (Garage/Parking) Setbacks: Minimum (ft.) 5      5      5     5     5
Table Footnotes:
1.   Projects within the RS-1 and RS-2 zoning districts that meet the
available Conservation Area Development criteria may utilize the R-1 setbacks
for the buildable residential lots. Buildable residential lots may also be
reduced in size, provided they are a minimum of 6,000 sq. ft. in area, have a
minimum of 50 feet of frontage, and structures do not exceed 30 feet in
height.
2.   Single family attached in the R-1 and R-2 zones, may utilize the R-
3 minimum lot sizes and frontage standards but must adhere to the base zoning
height requirements.
3.   Minimum lot frontage for lots on cul-de-sacs or roadways with a radius
curve shall be measured with a chord measurement of the front property line.
4.   Regardless of the zoning district, if a new mixed-use, multi-family, or
non-residential structure is being built immediately adjacent to a single-
family residence, the maximum height of the new structure shall be 30' unless
allowed to exceed such maximum height by special use permit approval. For the
purposes of this section, immediately adjacent to shall mean within one
hundred fifty (150) feet, as measured from structure to structure.
5.   Zero-foot (0') interior setback is permitted for Dwelling-Townhouse
(single-family attached) land uses only. In all other cases, the noted setback
shall be required.
6.   Street side yard garages for residential uses must meet the required
front yard, garage setback.
7.   Public land uses outlined in the applicable land use schedule located in
zoning districts other than the P-D (public) zone shall be permitted to
utilize the same height, setback, and area requirements as permitted in the P-
D (public) zone.
 
(Ord. 3664, 4-21-2025)
(Ord. 3664, 4-21-2025)
10-05-05 DENSITY ALLOWANCES:
   The density allowances set forth below are applicable to all residential
zoning districts and are based on the place type land use designations within
the City of Caldwell Comprehensive Plan.
Table 10-05-05:
Density Allowance - Residential Districts (RS-1, RS-2, R-2, R-3, R-3)
Comprehensive Compatible                                       Density Bonus &
Plan Land Use Zoning Districts Minimum Density Maximum Density Conservation
Designation                                                    Area Development
Table 10-05-05:
Density Allowance - Residential Districts (RS-1, RS-2, R-2, R-3, R-3)
Comprehensive  Compatible                                      Density Bonus &
Plan Land Use  Zoning          Minimum Density Maximum Density Conservation
Designation    Districts                                       Area Development
Neighborhood 1 RS-1, RS-2, P-D 0 du/ac         2 du/ac         3 du/ac2
Neighborhood 2 R-1, R-2, C-1,  2 du/ac         8 du/ac         12 du/ac1,3
               P-D
Neighborhood 3 R-2, R-3, C-1,  4 du/ac         20 du/ac        Up to 25 du/ac1
               C-2, P-D
Urban          R-1, R-2, C-1,  4 du/ac         10 du/ac        Up to 16 du/
Neighborhood   T-N, P-D                                        ac1,3
Community      R-2, R-3, C-1,
Center         C-2, C-3, H-C,  8 du/ac         15 du/ac        Up to 25 du/ac1
               P-D
Mixed Use      R-3, C-2, C-3,  10 du/ac        25 du/ac        Up to 40 du/ac1
Center         C-4, H-C, P-D
Table Footnotes:
1   See Section
10-03-18 of this chapter for Density Bonus Program criteria and requirements.
2   Must meet the criteria for Conservation Area Development in accordance with
this chapter.
3   Not applicable within the R-1 zone.
 
(Ord. 3664, 4-21-2025)
10-05-06 DEVELOPMENT OPTIONS:
   Different development options are offered in R districts to accommodate a
variety of community and lifestyle choices. The options described in this
section may be used at the property owner’s election.
   (1)   Standard Conventional Development: “Standard Conventional development”
is any development that is not part of an approved density bonus program,
conservation development, planned unit development or master planned community.
All regulations and provisions of the code are applicable
   (2)   Density Bonus Program Development:
      A.   The density bonus program development option is applicable only
within the R-2 and R-3 zoning designations. It offers additional density if a
project meets certain criteria. The density bonus program standardizes how
additional density is awarded and creates standards that are more evenly
enforced throughout the city. The program addresses unique goals and desired
development types in different parts of the city.
      B.   Property owners may select which components are most relevant to
their project in order to achieve a certain level of density increase. Density
increases are given based on a scoring matrix in accordance with Section
10-03-18 of this chapter.
   (3)   Conservation Area Development:
      A.   The conservation area development option is applicable only within
the RS-1 and RS-2 zones. It allows for an increase up to 3 du/ac in exchange
for the preservation of open space and agriculture. Development with a
recorded, deed-restricted conservation area may create a consolidation of
residential development on one portion of the property in order to preserve
open space. Conservation area development shall be in accordance with
10-05-07-1 (2) of this section. (Ord. 3664, 4-21-2025)
10-05-07 SUPPLEMENTAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
10-05-07-1 RS-1 AND RS- ZONES:
   (1)   General Regulations:
      A.   All development shall preserve the site’s natural and environmental
features, preserving wherever possible, the natural topography, drainage, and
rare native plant species.
      B.   All developments shall incorporate the use of open spaces, including
pastures or other agricultural fields, and wildlife corridors to create well
defined edges to each neighborhood.
      C.   Preservation Of Vistas: Where the land has a suitable slope from
which there are long range views, building structure and arrangement shall
preserve various vistas for all parts of the development and for adjoining
land.
      D.   Building Placement: Buildings set far from roadways and from each
other, unless part of a cluster development in accordance with subsection (2)
below.
   (2)   Conservation Area Development:
      A.   A minimum of 40% of the overall acreage shall be preserved within a
deed restriction recorded against the property. A conservation area may allow
natural environment preservation or continued agricultural production, but the
area shall remain undeveloped.
      B.   The maximum permitted density for the entire parcel, including the
conservation area, may be clustered on the remaining portion of the land.
      C.   In cluster development, views of housing lots from exterior road and
abutting properties shall be minimized by the use of changes in topography,
existing vegetation, or additional landscaping.
      D.   House lots shall be accessed from interior streets rather than from
roads bordering the land.
      E.   Projects shall be designed to minimize the extent of public
infrastructure needed to service the development or in such a way that the
conservation area is closest to the more rural areas.
      F.   Project shall be designed to protect viewsheds, buffer agricultural
uses from residential development, or facilitate connectivity between
agricultural or conservation areas.
      G.   If part of a final plat, the conservation area shall be noted on the
recorded final plat. Where the development is not subdivided through the
subdivision platting process, a deed restriction shall be recorded against all
lots or parcels part of the conservation area to prevent any future development
of the land. (Ord. 3664, 4-21-2025)
10-05-07-2 DWELLING - TWO-FAMILY (DUPLEX) STANDARDS:
   (1)   The following design standards shall be required with any Dwelling -
Two-Family Duplex residential structure:
      A.   A minimum fifteen (15) foot landscape buffer shall be installed
along the perimeter of any development or subdivision that contains more than
three (3) two-family duplex residential structures when directly adjacent to
any single-family detached dwellings. This buffer shall be landscaped per the
buffer standards in
10-02-09-6, Buffers Between Different Land Uses.
      B.   A minimum of one (1) distinct primary material and color shall be
used with a minimum of one (1) distinct accent material/color; said accent
color shall be different than the primary color.
      C.   Unfinished or colored ordinary smooth face block, untextured
concrete panels, and prefabricated steel panels (i.e. non-insulated metal
siding) are prohibited as primary materials but may be used as accent
materials.
      D.   Smooth vinyl siding is prohibited; textured vinyl siding (fiber
cement board, Hardie-board, etc., or similar) is permitted provided it does not
include a blank wall segment of more than 300 square feet on any elevation. A
mix of material patterns is encouraged when textured vinyl siding is utilized,
including, but not limited to: board and batten, horizontal and vertical lap,
shake, or shingles.
      E.   Physically heavier and more robust materials such as concrete,
masonry, stone, or similar materials are encouraged along all street facing
elevations.
      F.   If multi-story, an accent material or other architectural element
shall be utilized to delineate between each floor.
      G.   At least one type of modulation is required on any façade plane that
is visible from a public street or public space. Qualifying modulation includes
projections, recesses, and step backs that break up building mass. Modulation
shall be a minimum width and depth of one (1) foot and encompass at least 25%
of the façade area.
      H.   Any combination of material, color, modulation, or other
articulation shall be used to delineate and break up wall planes greater than
three hundred (300) square feet in area and/or between each dwelling unit.
(Ord. 3664, 4-21-2025)
ARTICLE 6: COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
Section
   
10-06-01   General Regulations
   
10-06-02   Districts
   
10-06-03   Uses
   
10-06-04   Bulk and Dimensional Standards
   
10-06-05   Density Allowances
   
10-06-06   Development Options
10-06-01 GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   (1)   Applicability: The zoning district regulations and standards
established in this section shall apply to all commercial zoning districts
established in this section, unless specifically stated otherwise in a specific
article in this chapter.
   (2)   Residential Uses in Nonresidential Zones: Residential uses in
nonresidential zones shall have the same requirements as set forth in the R-
3 Zone. (Ord. 3665, 4-21-2025)
10-06-02 DISTRICTS:
   (1)   Intent: Caldwell’s five (5) commercial zoning districts are primarily
intended to permit development of property for the full range of market driven
commercial uses needed to serve the citizens of the Caldwell and surrounding
areas. The districts, while distinct, permit a variety of shopping and service
opportunities
   (2)   District Map Symbol / Names:
      The city’s commercial zoning districts are listed below. Changes have
been made to the H-C district name, which has no impact on current land use
entitlements or property rights.
      When this zoning and development code refers to “commercial” zoning
districts or “C” or “H-C” districts, it is referring to these districts.
 
Old Zoning Map Old District Name    New Zoning Map Symbol New District Name
Symbol
C-1            Neighborhood         C-1                   Neighborhood
               Commercial                                 Commercial
C-2            Community Commercial C-2                   Community Commercial
C-3            Service Commercial   C-3                   General Commercial
C-4            Freeway Commercial   C-4                   Service Commercial
H-C            Highway Corridor     H-C                   Mixed-Use/ Regional
                                                          Commercial
 
   (3)   District Purpose Statements:
      A.   C-1 ZONE: The purpose of this zone is to provide areas by zoning
procedures in accordance with the comprehensive plan that accommodate small-
scale, low-intensity retail, restaurant, office, and service-oriented
businesses that serve the day-to-day needs of nearby residential neighborhoods.
      B.   C-2 ZONE: The purpose of this zone is to provide areas by zoning
procedures in accordance with the comprehensive plan that accommodate
businesses which provide convenient goods and services to a daytime work
population as well as the residents of surrounding neighborhoods.
      C.   C-3 ZONE: The purpose of this zone is to provide areas by zoning
procedures in accordance with the comprehensive plan that accommodates a wide
variety of retail, personal service, office, restaurant, and other commercial
service uses, primarily within and along Caldwell’s major corridors that
primarily serve the city and the region.
      D.   C-4 ZONE: The purpose of this zone is to provide areas by zoning
procedures in accordance with the comprehensive plan where activities of a
commercial service nature are carried out. Uses within this zone may be more
intensive in character than in other commercial zones and may include some
semi-industrial uses.
      E.   H-C ZONE: The purpose of this zone is to provide areas by zoning
procedures in accordance with the comprehensive plan that accommodates more
intense commercial activity serving the commercial needs of the city of
Caldwell and the region than what may be provided within the C-3 zone. This
zone would allow for a heterogeneous mix of uses, including major retail
centers, large-scale office parks, medical centers, wholesale businesses, and
highway oriented commercial businesses. Uses within this zone are intended to
be more mixed-use in nature and have frontage or access off of major arterial
or collector roadways. (Ord. 3665, 4-21-2025)
10-06-03 USES:
   (1)   Purpose: This section sets forth the permitted and specially permitted
uses Caldwell’s commercial zoning districts. For Overlay Zoning Districts, see
Chapter 10, Article 11.
   (2)   Explanation and Key to Land Use Table Abbreviations:
      A.   Permitted Uses (P): A “P” in a cell indicates that a use is allowed
by right in the respective zoning district. Permitted uses are subject to all
other applicable regulations of this zoning ordinance.
      B.   Administrative Development Review (ADR): An “ADR” in a cell
indicates the use is allowed by right but requires the submission of an
Administrative Review application and the issuance of a Certificate of Zoning
Compliance prior to submission of building permits and the commencement of any
construction. In addition, all land uses allowed by right in which a building
permit is not required will require the submission of an Administrative
Development Review (ADR) application to allow for the review of the land use,
site plan, parking, landscaping and compliance with all other applicable city
code regulations and laws.
      C.   Special Use Permit (SUP). A “SUP” in a cell indicates that the use
is allowed in the respective zoning district only if reviewed and approved as a
special use, by the commission or hearing examiner in accordance with the
special use permit procedures of this chapter. A “
         1.   Special uses are subject to all other applicable regulations of
this chapter.
         2.   The “SUP” or “SUP/C” designation in a given district does not
constitute an authorization or assurance that such use will be permitted.
Rather, each special use permit application shall be evaluated as to its
probable effect on adjacent properties and surrounding areas, among other
factors, and may be approved, approved with conditions, or denied pursuant to
the procedures in Section
10-03-04, Special Use Permits.
      D.   Uses Accessory to the Principal Use (A). An “A” in a cell indicates
the land use is permitted only as an accessory land use to an approved
principal use only.
      E.   Temporary Use Only (TUP). A “TUP” in any cell indicates that the use
is only permitted as a temporary use only. Temporary use permits may be
required in accordance with Section
10-12-03-34.
      F.   Specific Use Provisions (*). A “*” in any cell indicates that
regardless of whether a use is allowed by right, or as a special use, temporary
use, or accessory use, additional standards may be applicable to the use. Refer
to
Chapter 10, Article 12 of this chapter for Specific Use Provisions.
      D.   Uses Not Allowed. An empty cell indicates that the use is not
allowed in the respective zoning district, unless otherwise specified elsewhere
in this chapter.
   (3)   Classification of New and Unlisted Uses:
      A.   If a proposed use of property is not specifically listed in this
table, the use shall be prohibited unless the Director, upon the request of an
applicant, determines that a proposed use not listed in this table, is
equivalent to a listed permitted or special use. In making the decision, the
Director shall consider the following:
         1.   The impacts on public services and activities associated with the
proposed use are substantially similar to those of 1 or more of the uses listed
in the applicable base districts as allowed;
         2.   The proposed use shall not involve a higher level of activity or
density than 1 or more of the uses listed in the applicable base districts as
allowed;
         3.   The proposed use is consistent with the purpose of the district
in which the use is proposed to be located; and
         4.   The proposed use is in substantial conformance with the goals and
objectives of the Comprehensive Plan.
         5.   The Director may also use past precedent, case law, and legal
opinion in making the determination.
         6.   When considering a use that is not listed in the use table, the
Director shall also determine whether additional use-specific standards are
necessary.
            If the Director denies an application for such a requested use, the
applicant shall have the right, within the period of ten (10) days from the
date of such disapproval, to appeal the Director’s decision to the City
Council. The decision of the City Council shall be final.
   (4)   Mix of Uses:
      A.   More than one classification of uses and more than one use within
these use classifications shall be permitted on a lot or parcel in the
commercial districts without a planned unit development application, if the
proposed individual uses are permitted uses or special uses, unless otherwise
specified within the specific use provisions for a mixed-use development.
      B.   More than one principal structure or building, without having a
planned unit development, are allowed upon a single development site, with the
exception of a site utilized for or containing single family residential.
      C.   In the case of a proposed special use, such application should
proceed through the standard procedures of a special use permit application.
      D.   Residential uses are prohibited along the frontage of all arterial
roadways and highways within the Mixed-Use or Community Center place types, as
designated on the Future Land Use Map, unless part of a Mixed-Use Small-Scale
or Mixed-Use Large-Scale building in compliance with section
10-12-03-25.
   (5)   Land Use Schedule:
Table 10-06-03:
Land Use Schedule for Commercial Districts (C-1, C-2, C-3, C-4, H-C)2,4,6,7,14
P                                Permitted
A                                Permitted as an Accessory Use to a Legal
                                 Primary Use
ADR                              Requires Administrative Site/Development
                                 Review
SUP                              Requires a Special Use Permit
SUP/C                            Requires a Special Use Permit at City Council
                                 Level
TUP                              Permitted as a Temporary Use with a Temporary
                                 Use Permit
Blank Cell                       Not Permitted
*                                Land Use is subject to Specific Use Provisions
Land Uses                        C-1   C-2   C-3   C-4 H-C
Accessory Buildings and Uses*    P     P     P     P   P
Adult Business*
Agriculture, General11
Aircraft Repair and Service
Airplane / Helicopter Hanger
Airport / Airport Terminal
Ambulance Service                P     P     P     P   P
Amusement Centers                            SUP   SUP SUP
Animal Shelter                               SUP   P   P
Artist Studio / Gallery*         P     P     P         P
Arts, Entertainment and          SUP   P     P     P   P
Recreation Facilities (Indoor)*
Arts, Entertainment and          SUP   SUP   P3    P3  P3
Recreation Facilities (Outdoor)*
Auction House                                SUP   SUP SUP
Automotive - Body Shop8                      SUP   SUP
Automotive - Car Wash*           SUP   P     P     P   P
Automotive - Gas / Service       SUP   P     P     P   P
Station (standalone)*
Automotive - Rental Lot                P     P     P   SUP
Automotive - Repair Services*8         SUP   P     P
Automotive - Storage (Indoor                 SUP   P
Only)
Automotive - Storage (Outdoor)                     SUP
Automotive - Tow Yard                              SUP
Bail Bond Use                                SUP   P
Brewery - Large Scale*                 SUP   P     P   P
Brewery - Small Scale*           P     P     P     SUP P
Cemetery
Church / Places of Religious     P     P     P
Worship*
Clinic / Hospital - Large Animal       SUP   P     P   P
Clinic / Hospital - Small Animal P     P     P         P
Club / Lodge                     SUP   P     P
Commercial Dairy
Commercial Kennel                      P     P     P
Community Center (private)
Community Center (public)        SUP   P     P         P
Community Garden                 P     P               P
                                 Any permitted project may go through the condo
Condominiums                     plat process. See Definition of Condominium in
                                 Section
                                 10-01-10
Conference / Convention Center         SUP   SUP       SUP
Contractor’s Shop with Storage             SUP   SUP
Yard*
Correctional / Detention
Facility
Crematorium                                        SUP
Dance Hall / Night Club                SUP   SUP       SUP
Daycare/Preschool - In- Home -   P     P     P         P
Family/Group (12 or <)*
Daycare/Preschool - Center       P     P     P         P
(13 or >)*8
Distillery - Large Scale*                          P   SUP
Distillery - Small Scale*              SUP   SUP       P
Donation Containers or Storage   A     A     A     A
Pods*
Dormitory8
Drinking Establishments -              SUP   SUP   SUP SUP
Liquor*
Dwelling - Accessory Dwelling    SUP1  SUP1
Unit (ADU)*
Dwelling - Caretaker             A     A     A     A   A
Dwelling - Group Home /
Residence
(8 or < residents)
Dwelling - Group Home/Residence
(9 or > residents)
Dwelling - Live / Work12         P     P               P
Dwelling - Multifamily (Triplex)                       P13
Dwelling - Multifamily                                 P13
(Fourplex)
Dwelling - Multifamily
Apartments                                             P13
(Small Scale)
Dwelling - Multifamily
Apartments                                             SUP/C13
(Large Scale)
Dwelling - Single Family;
Townhouse                                              P13
(3 < attached)
Dwelling - Single Family;
Townhouse                                              P13
(4 or > attached)
Dwelling - Transitional Home     SUP
Elevated Pedestrian Walkways*    ADR   ADR   ADR   ADR ADR
Equipment Repair & Service -                 SUP   SUP
Large*
Equipment Repair & Service -           P     P
Small*
Equipment Repair & Service -           SUP   P
Household*
Event Center*                          SUP   P     SUP SUP
Farmstand - Off-Site             TUP   TUP   TUP   TUP TUP
Farmstand - On-Site              A     A     A     A   A
Farmer’s Market                SUP
Financial Institution            SUP   P     P         P
Financial Institution (with      SUP   P     P         P
drive-through)*
Fitness Facility - Large         P     P     P     P   P
Fitness Facility - Small         P     P     P     P   P
Flea Market                                        SUP
Flex Space*                      P     P     P     P   P
Food Bank / Soup Kitchen         SUP   SUP
Food Stand                       P     P     P         P
Fraternity / Sorority House8
Frozen Food Locker Facility                  P     P
Funeral Home                     SUP   P     P     P
Greenhouse - Commercial8
Helipad                                SUP   SUP   SUP
Hospital                               SUP   SUP       P
Industry - Craftsman / Artisan   ADR   ADR   ADR   ADR ADR
Industry - Light Industrial8                       P   SUP
Industry - Medium Industrial                       SUP
Industry - Heavy Industrial*
Industry - Animal Slaughterhouse
Industry - Information / Data
Centers*
Industry - Fireworks
Industry - Storage Silo                            SUP
(accessory)
Industry - Trucking / Terminal                     SUP
Yard
Industry - Warehouse and                           SUP
Distribution Facility
Industry - Warehouse and Storage             SUP   SUP
(General)
Industry - Warehouse and Storage
(Hazardous)
Laboratory - Medical / Dental8                     P   SUP
Laboratory - Research /                            P   SUP
Scientific Testing
Landscaping Business                   SUP   ADR   ADR ADR
Library                          P     P     P     P   P
Lodging - Bed and Breakfast Inns
Lodging - Boutique Hotel               P     P     P   P
Lodging - Hotel                        SUP   P     P   P
Lodging - Long-Term Hotel              SUP   P     P   P
(extended stay)
Lodging - Motel                                        SUP
Manufactured Home Communities /
Developments*
Mixed Use - Small Scale*                               P10
Mixed Use - Large Scale*                               P10
Mobile Food Unit *               TUP   TUP   TUP   TUP TUP
Mobile Food Unit Parks / Courts        P     P         SUP
*
Mortuary                               SUP   P     P
Museum                           P     P     P     P   P
Nursing and Residential Care     P
Facility
Offices - (Medical / Dental /    P     P     P         P
Healthcare)
Outdoor Storage; Accessory*                  SUP   SUP
Parking Garage - Private         SUP   SUP   P     P   P
Parking Garage - Public          P     P     P     P   P
Parking Lot - Accessory          P     P     P     P   P
(Private)
Parking Lot - Public             P     P     P     P   P
Parking Lot - Stand Alone                          SUP SUP
(Private)
Pawnshop                               SUP   P
Payday Loan & Title Loan               SUP/C SUP/C
Establishments
Pedestrian Tunnel                                  SUP SUP
Personal Services                P     P     P     P   P
Professional Services            P     P     P     P   P
Public Administrative Offices    P     P     P     P
Public Facility / Building       SUP   P     P     P   P
Public Utility Yard                          SUP   SUP SUP
Recreational Vehicle (RV) Parks*             SUP   SUP SUP
Research & Development Facility              SUP   SUP SUP
Restaurant - Full Service        P     P     P         P
Restaurant - Limited Service     P     P     P         P
Restaurant - Snack and           P     P     P         P
Nonalcoholic Beverage Bars
Retail Sales - Boutique          P     P     P     P   P
(< 5,000 sq. ft.)
Retail Sales - Limited           P     P     P     P   P
(5,001 - 10,000 sq. ft.)
Retail Sales - Semi-Limited      SUP5  P     P     P   P
(10,001 - 30,000 sq. ft.)
Retail Sales - General                 P     P     P   P
(30,001 - 80,000 sq. ft.)
Retail Sales - Big Box                       P     P   P
(80,001 - 200,000 sq. ft.)
Retail Sales - Automotive (New)*             SUP   SUP SUP
Retail Sales - Automotive                    SUP   SUP SUP
(Used)*
Retail Sales - Fireworks         P9    P9    P9    P9  P9
(Temporary Stands)
Retail Sales - Fireworks
(Permanent)
Retail Sales - Large Equipment                         SUP
Sales and Rental*
Retail Sales - Liquor Store            SUP   SUP   SUP SUP
Retail Sales - Nursery           SUP11 SUP11 P     P   P
Retail Sales - Recreational                        SUP SUP
Vehicles*
Retail Sales - Sales Lots*                   SUP   SUP SUP
Retail Sales - Secondhand /            SUP   SUP
Thrift Stores
Retail Sales - Shopping Center         SUP   SUP   P   P
Retail Sales - Shopping Mall                 SUP   SUP P
Retail Sales - Tire Shop                     P     P   P
Retail Sales - Tobacco / Vape          SUP   SUP
Shop*
Retail Sales - Truck Sales
(Commercial/Freight)*
Retail Sales Store w/ Gasoline*  SUP   SUP   P     P   P
Riding School (Academy) or
Stable
Rooming / Boarding House                     SUP       SUP
Schools - Commercial             P     P     P     P   P
Schools - Post Secondary         SUP   SUP   SUP   SUP SUP
(private)
Schools - Post Secondary         SUP   SUP   SUP   SUP P
(public)*
Schools - Primary and Secondary  SUP   SUP   SUP   SUP SUP
(private)
Schools - Primary and Secondary  SUP   SUP   SUP   SUP P
(public)*
Security Guard Quarters          A     A     A     A   A
Shelter - Day                    SUP   SUP   SUP       SUP
Shelter - Emergency              P     P     P     P
Shelter - Homeless (overnight)               SUP   SUP
Shooting Range (indoor)*                     SUP   SUP
Shooting Range (outdoor)*
Storage Facility- Self Service
(indoor)
Storage Facility - Self Service
(traditional)
Tattoo / Body Piercing Studio          SUP   P     P   P
Taxidermy Shop                         SUP   P     P   P
Temporary Uses                   See Section
                                 10-12-03-34
Therapy / Rehabilitation         P     P     P         P
Facility
Transit Station (passenger)            SUP   P     P   P
Truck Stop                                   SUP   P   SUP
U-Pick Farm                      A     A
Vineyard
Wholesale Sales - General                          SUP SUP
Wholesale Sales - Nursery              SUP   P     P   SUP
Winery / Cidery*                 SUP   SUP   P     P   P
Winetasting Establishment*       P     P     P     P   P
Wireless Communication Facility        SUP   SUP   SUP SUP
- Large Scale*
Wireless Communication Facility  ADR   ADR   ADR   ADR ADR
- Small Scale*
Zoo                                                SUP SUP
Table Footnotes:
1   Accessory dwelling units are only permitted in conjunction with an existing
legal single family detached homes and when in compliance with the Accessory
Use section of this code.
2   Design characteristics for building placement, scale and massing,
transitions and density shall be in compliance with this chapter and in
conformance with the comprehensive plan.
3   Drive-In theaters require a Special Use Permit.
4    Outdoor storage shall comply with Section
10-12-03-29
5    Must be located on the intersection of arterial and major collector
roadways or front on a highway.
6   All Drive through establishments must meet the requirements of
Chapter 10, Article 12
7   All Establishments serving alcohol must comply with the requirements of
Chapter 10, Article 12.
8   Shall be permitted as an accessory use to an existing school - primary and
secondary (public) or school - post-secondary (public)
9   The retail sale of fireworks at a temporary fireworks stand requires a
fireworks permit to be obtained through the City Clerk’s office.
10   See
10-12-03-25 for mixed use specific use provisions.
11   In no way does the preclude any landowner from claiming an agricultural
exemption for growing crops in accordance with Idaho Code.
12   The area designated for the work component must be located on the ground
level and occupy not less than twenty-five (25) percent, and no more than fifty
(50) percent of the total gross floor area of the live/work unit. Uses for the
work component are limited to permitted or specially permitted uses (required
special use permit) within the base zoning district.
13   Residential uses are prohibited along all arterial roadways within the
Mixed-Use or Community Center place types, as designated on the Future Land Use
Map, unless part of a Mixed-Use building.
14   All land uses allowed by right in which a building permit is not required
will require the submission of an Administrative Development Review (ADR)
application to allow for the review of the land use, site plan, parking,
landscaping and compliance with all other applicable city code regulations and
laws.
 
(Ord. 3665, 4-21-2025)
10-06-04 BULK AND DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
   This section contains the requirements for lot size and coverage, scale and
massing, and setbacks for all types of development. These standards may be
further limited or modified by other applicable sections of this chapter. Some
uses are subject to use-specific standards or overlay district requirements
that impose stricter requirements than set forth in this subsection.
   (1)   Setback Reduction: The minimum setback provisions may be reduced with
a Director’s administrative determination in accordance with Section
10-01-02-3, a variance approval, or a planned unit development approval,
whichever may be most applicable.
   (2)   New Construction: All new construction shall comply with the current
bulk and dimensional standard schedule in effect at the time the building
permit was filed, excluding alternative setback, height, and/or area schedule
requirements as approved through a planned unit development, Development
Agreement, or other Planning application.
   (3)   Setback Measurements: All setbacks shall be measured from the lot /
property lines. Regardless of the noted setbacks in each section, in no case
shall new construction be placed within any public right-of-way or utility
easement unless express permission has been granted by the applicable agency/
jurisdiction.
   (4)   Residential Uses in Nonresidential Zones: Residential uses in
nonresidential zones shall have the same requirements as set forth in the R-
2 Zone. This includes, but is not limited to, requirements for setbacks,
frontages, lot size and dimensions, signage, and fencing.
   (5)   Projections:
      A.   No part of the building whatsoever, including cornices, canopies,
eaves, foundations, stairs, steps, footings, air conditioning units, etc.,
shall extend into any recorded or nonrecorded easement or easement area, nor
any existing or future right-of-way or right-of-way area unless the utility or
agency having jurisdiction over the easement or right-of-way has given written
permission for such projection to take place;
      B.   Should a structure be found to be in nonconformance with this
article, the following shall apply:
         1.   Structure shall be removed by and at the property owner’s expense
within five (5) days of a request by the City or utility to remove said
structure;
         2.   Structure can be removed by the City or utility after the five
(5) day deadline has expired, without the property owner’s permission and
without compensation to the property owner, and with or without notification,
as necessary for utility or right-of-way maintenance/improvements for any
existing or future public right-of-way areas or easements. Furthermore, City or
utility shall not be responsible for any damage caused to structure during the
process of removal;
         3.   Property owners shall sign and have notarized a statement
prepared by the City acknowledging the above items.
      (6)   Dimensional Standard Table: The allowances set forth below are
applicable to all commercial zoning districts. All minimum standards shall be
met, along with compliance with maximum densities as specified in
10-06-05.
Table 10-06-04:
Bulk and Dimensional Standards - Commercial Districts
Table 10-06-04:
Bulk and Dimensional Standards - Commercial Districts
Minimum Lot Size                          C-1 C-2 C-3  C-4  H-C
Interior Lot Area (sq. ft.)               0   0   0    0    0
Corner Lot Area (sq. ft.)                 0   0   0    0    0
Minimum Lot Frontage (ft.)                0   0   0    0    0
Scale and Massing                         C-1 C-2 C-3  C-4  H-C
Maximum Building Height (ft.) 1, 2        35  55  None None 65
Setbacks                                  C-1 C-2 C-3  C-4  H-C
Front Yard Setback; Minimum (ft.)3        10  0   0    0    10
Front Yard Setback; Maximum (ft.)                           154
Interior Side Yard Setback; Minimum (ft.) 5   0   0    0    0
Street Side Yard Setback; Minimum (ft.)   15  0   0    0    10
Rear Yard Setback; Minimum (ft.)          20  0   0    0    0
Table Footnotes:
1   The maximum height may be exceeded by special use permit approval.
2   Regardless of the zoning district, if a new mixed-use, multi-family, or
non-residential structure is being built immediately adjacent to a single-
family residence, the maximum height of the new structure shall be 30' unless
allowed to exceed such maximum height by special use permit approval. For the
purposes of this section, immediately adjacent to shall mean within one
hundred fifty (150) feet, as measured from structure to structure.
3   Building setback only-off-street parking areas may require a different
setback than those listed. See section
10-02-05 for all off-street parking requirements and
10-02-09 for parking lot landscaping requirements.
4   Maximum building setback from internal local streets applicable when
utilizing a mixed-use building that includes residential uses.
5   Public land uses outlined in the applicable land use schedule located in
zoning districts other than the P-D (public) zone shall be permitted to
utilize the same height, setback, and area requirements as permitted in the
P-D (public) zone.
 
(Ord. 3665, 4-21-2025)
10-06-05 DENSITY ALLOWANCES:
   The density allowances set forth below are applicable to all commercial
zoning districts where residential is permitted within this chapter and are
based on the place types within the City of Caldwell Comprehensive Plan.
 
Table 10-06-05:
Density Allowance - All Commercial Districts
Comprehensive Compatible
Plan Land Use Zoning Districts Minimum Density Maximum Density Density Bonus
Designation
Community     R-2, R-3, C-1,
Center        C-2, C-3, H-C,   8 du/ac         15 du/ac        Up to 25 du/ac1
              P-D
Mixed Use     R-3, C-2, C-3,   10 du/ac        25 du/ac        Up to 40 du/ac1
Center        C-4, H-C, P-D
Table Footnotes:
1   See Section
10-03-18 of this chapter for Density Bonus Program criteria and requirements.
 
(Ord. 3665, 4-21-2025)
10-06-06 DEVELOPMENT OPTIONS:
   Different development options are offered in commercial districts where
residential is permitted, to accommodate a variety of community and lifestyle
choices. The options described in this section may be used at the property
owner’s election.
   (1)   Standard Conventional Development: “Standard Conventional development”
is any development that is not part of an approved density bonus program,
conservation easement development, planned unit development or master planned
community. All regulations and provisions of the code are applicable
   (2)   Density Bonus Program Development:
      A.   The density bonus program development option is applicable when a
mixed-use project with residential is proposed with an H-C zoning designation.
It offers additional density if a project meets certain criteria. The density
bonus program standardizes how additional density is awarded and creates
standards that are more evenly enforced throughout the city. The program
addresses unique goals and desired development types in different parts of the
city.
      B.   Property owners may select which components are most relevant to
their project in order to achieve a certain level of density increase. Density
increases are given based on a scoring matrix in accordance with Section
10-03-18 of this chapter. (Ord. 3665, 4-21-2025)
ARTICLE 7: MANUFACTURING AND INDUSTRIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
Section
   
10-07-01   General Regulations
   
10-07-02   Districts
   
10-07-03   Uses
   
10-07-04   Bulk and Dimensional Standards
   
10-07-05   Development Standards
10-07-01 GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   (1)   Applicability: The zoning district regulations and standards
established in this section shall apply to all manufacturing and industrial
zoning districts established in this chapter, unless specifically stated
otherwise in a specific article in this chapter. (Ord. 3666, 4-21-2025)
10-07-02 DISTRICTS:
   (1)   Intent: Caldwell’s manufacturing and industrial (M) zoning districts
are primarily intended to provide locations for existing and future
manufacturing and industrial uses, and that are better suited for locations
outside of the more densely populated areas of Caldwell due to site
requirements, noise impacts, logistical needs, and other considerations. The
intent of the manufacturing and industrial zones is to allow manufacturing,
warehousing, wholesale, research and development facilities, industrial,
assembly and distribution, and essential public facilities. A broader range of
commercial uses that function efficiently and harmoniously within the zone are
allowed. Office and other secondary may be limited to those that support these
primary uses. Other accessory supporting uses may be considered. Residential
uses are not allowed.
   (2)   District Map Symbol / Names: The city’s manufacturing and industrial
zoning districts are listed below. Changes have been made to the district’s
name, which has no impact on current land use entitlements or property rights.
      When this zoning and development code refers to “manufacturing and
industrial” zoning districts or “M” districts, it is referring to these
districts.
 
Old Zoning Map Old District Name New Zoning Map Symbol New District Name
Symbol
M-1            Light Industrial  M-1                   General Industrial
M-2            Heavy Industrial  M-2                   Heavy Industrial
I-P            Industrial Park   I-P                   Industrial and
                                                       Business Park
 
   (3)   District Purpose Statements:
      A.   M-1 ZONE: The purpose of this zone is to designate areas by zoning
procedures in accordance with the comprehensive plan for wholesaling and
distributing activities, genera manufacturing, warehouses, research and
development centers, processing and assembly-type manufacturing and other
similar industrial uses. Processing or fabrication will be limited to
activities conducted within a building that does not emit fumes, odor, dust,
smoke or gas beyond the confines of the building within which the activities
occur or produce significant levels of noise or vibration. Commercial uses
which have been deemed to function efficiently and harmoniously with industrial
uses in this zone may be permitted in accordance with this chapter.
      B.   M-2 ZONE: The purpose of this zone is to designate areas by zoning
procedures in accordance with the comprehensive plan that are suitable for
heavy manufacturing and industrial uses which have the greatest potential for
producing undesirable or adverse by-products, including traffic, noise, odors,
dust and vibrations. The M-2 district should be located in places substantially
removed from residential areas.
      C.   I-P ZONE: The purpose of this zone is to provide areas by zoning
procedures in accordance with the comprehensive plan that accommodates a wide
variety of manufacturing, distribution, light processing, office buildings,
warehouse retail and related commercial support facilities. This zone is
intended to promote efficient and economical land use, an improved level of
amenities, appropriate and harmonious variety in physical development, creative
design, improved industrial and commercial environments, and the protection of
adjacent and nearby existing and future city development. (Ord. 3666, 4-21-
2025)
10-07-03 USES:
   (1)   Purpose: This section sets forth the permitted and specially permitted
uses Caldwell’s manufacturing and industrial zoning districts. For Overlay
Zoning Districts, see
Chapter 10, Article 11.
   (2)   Explanation and Key to Land Use Table Abbreviations:
      A.   Permitted Uses (P): A “P” in a cell indicates that a use is allowed
by right in the respective zoning district. Permitted uses are subject to all
other applicable regulations of this zoning ordinance.
      B.   Administrative Development Review (ADR): An “ADR” in a cell
indicates the use is allowed by right but requires the submission of an
Administrative Review application and the issuance of a Certificate of Zoning
Compliance prior to submission of building permits and the commencement of any
construction. In addition, all land uses allowed by right in which a building
permit is not required will require the submission of an Administrative
Development Review (ADR) application to allow for the review of the land use,
site plan, parking, landscaping and compliance with all other applicable city
code regulations and laws.
      C.   Special Use Permit (SUP). A “SUP” in a cell indicates that the use
is allowed in the respective zoning district only if reviewed and approved as a
special use, by the commission or hearing examiner in accordance with the
special use permit procedures of this chapter. A “SUP/C” in a cell indicates
that the use is allowed in the respective zoning district only after it has
been reviewed and approved by the City Council.
         1.   Special uses are subject to all other applicable regulations of
this chapter.
         2.   The “SUP” or “SUP/C” designation in a given district does not
constitute an authorization or assurance that such use will be permitted.
Rather, each special use permit application shall be evaluated as to its
probable effect on adjacent properties and surrounding areas, among other
factors, and may be approved, approved with conditions, or denied pursuant to
the procedures in Section
10-03-04, Special Use Permits.
      D.   Uses Accessory to the Principal Use (A). An “A” in a cell indicates
the land use is permitted only as an accessory land use to an approved
principal use only.
      E.   Temporary Use Only (TUP). A “TUP” in any cell indicates that the use
is only permitted as a temporary use only. Temporary use permits may be
required in accordance with Section
10-12-03-34.
      F.   Specific Use Provisions (*). A “*” in any cell indicates that
regardless of whether a use is allowed by right, or as a special use, temporary
use, or accessory use, additional standards may be applicable to the use. Refer
to
Chapter 10, Article 12 of this chapter for Specific Use Provisions.
      D.   Uses Not Allowed. An empty cell indicates that the use is not
allowed in the respective zoning district.
   (3)   Classification of New and Unlisted Uses:
      A.   If a proposed use of property is not specifically listed in this
table, the use shall be prohibited unless the Director, upon the request of an
applicant, determines that a proposed use not listed in this table, is
equivalent to a listed permitted or special use. In making the decision, the
Director shall consider the following:
         1.   The impacts on public services and activities associated with the
proposed use are substantially similar to those of 1 or more of the uses listed
in the applicable base districts as allowed;
         2.   The proposed use shall not involve a higher level of activity or
density than 1 or more of the uses listed in the applicable base districts as
allowed;
         3.   The proposed use is consistent with the purpose of the district
in which the use is proposed to be located; and
         4.   The proposed use is in substantial conformance with the goals and
objectives of the Comprehensive Plan.
         5.   The Director may also use past precedent, case law, and legal
opinion in making the determination.
         6.   When considering a use not listed in the use table, the Director
shall also determine whether additional use-specific standards are necessary.
            If the Director denies an application for such a requested use, the
applicant shall have the right, within the period of ten (10) days from the
date of such disapproval, to appeal the Director’s decision to the City
Council. The decision of the City Council shall be final.?
   (4)   Mix of Uses:
      A.   More than one classification of uses and more than one use within
these use classifications shall be permitted on a lot or parcel within the same
building, without a planned unit development application approval, if the
proposed individual uses are permitted uses or special uses, except for a lot
or parcel utilized for or containing single family residential.
      B.   In the manufacturing and industrial zones, more than one principal
structure or building may be built upon a single parcel or lot, except for a
lot or parcel utilized for or containing single family residential.
      C.   In the case of a proposed special use, such application should
proceed through the standard procedures of a special use permit application.
   (5)   Land Use Schedule:
10-07-03:
Land Use Schedule for Manufacturing and Industrial District (M-1, M-2, I-P)1,2
P                                     Permitted
A                                     Permitted as an Accessory Use to a Legal
                                      Primary Use
ADR                                   Requires Administrative Site/Development
                                      Review
SUP                                   Requires a Special Use Permit
SUP/C                                 Requires a Special Use Permit at City
                                      Council Level
TUP                                   Permitted as a Temporary Use with a
                                      Temporary Use Permit
Blank Cell                            Not Permitted
*                                     Land Use is subject to Specific Use
                                      Provisions
Land Uses                             M-1   M-2   I-P2
Accessory Buildings and Uses *        A     A     A
Adult Business*                                   SUP
Agriculture, General                  P     P     P
Aircraft Repair and Service           P     P     SUP
Airplane / Helicopter Hanger          P     SUP   SUP
Airport / Airport Terminal            SUP   SUP   SUP
Ambulance Service                     P           P
Amusement Centers
Animal Shelter                        SUP         SUP
Artist Studio / Gallery *
Arts, Entertainment and Recreation
Facilities                            P           P
(Indoor) *
Arts, Entertainment and Recreation    SUP         SUP
Facilities (Outdoor) *
Auction House                         P     P     P
Automotive - Body Shop                P     P     SUP
Automotive - Car Wash *               P           P
Automotive - Gas / Service Station    P           P
(standalone) *
Automotive - Rental Lot               SUP         SUP
Automotive - Repair Services *        SUP   P
Automotive - Storage (Indoor Only)    P
Automotive - Storage (Outdoor)        SUP
Automotive - Tow Yard                 SUP   P
Bail Bond Use                         P
Brewery - Large Scale *               P     P     P
Brewery - Small Scale *               P           P
Cemetery                              SUP         SUP
Church / Places of Religious Worship
*
Clinic / Hospital - Large Animal      SUP         SUP
Clinic / Hospital - Small Animal      P           SUP
Club / Lodge
Commercial Dairy                            SUP
Commercial Kennel                     P           P
Community Center (private)
Community Center (public)
Community Garden
                                      Any permitted project may go through the
Condominiums                          condo plat process. See Definition of
                                      Condominium in Section
                                      10-01-10
Conference / Convention Center
Contractor’s Shop with Storage Yard SUP   P     P
Correctional / Detention Facility     SUP   SUP   SUP
Cottage Industries *
Crematorium                                 P
Dance Hall / Night Club
Daycare/Preschool - In- Home -
Family/Group                          A           P
(12 or <) *
Daycare/Preschool - Center (13 or >)  A           A
*
Distillery - Large Scale *            P     P     P
Distillery - Small Scale *            P           SUP
Donation Containers or Pods *         A     P     A
Dormitory
Drinking Establishments - Liquor*     SUP         SUP
Dwelling - Accessory Dwelling Unit
(ADU) *
Dwelling - Caretaker                  A     A     A
Elevated Pedestrian Walkways *        A     A     A
Equipment Repair & Service - Large *  P     P     P
Equipment Repair & Service - Small *  P     P     P
Equipment Repair & Service -          P           SUP
Household *
Event Center *                        SUP         SUP
Farmstand - Off-Site                  SUP   SUP   SUP
Farmstand - On-Site                   A     A     A
Farmer’s Market
Financial Institution                 P
Financial Institution (with drive-    P
through) *
Fitness Facility - Large              P           P
Fitness Facility - Small              P           P
Flea Market                                 SUP
Flex Space *                          P     P     P
Food Bank / Soup Kitchen              P           P
Food Stand                            P           P
Fraternity / Sorority House
Frozen Food Locker Facility           P     P     P
Funeral Home                          P           P
Greenhouse - Commercial               P     P     P
Helipad
Hospital
Industry - Craftsman / Artisan        P     P     P
Industry - Light Industrial           P     P     P
Industry - Medium Industrial          P     P     P
Industry - Heavy Industrial*                SUP   SUP
Industry - Animal Slaughterhouse            SUP
Industry - Information / Data Centers P     P     P
*
Industry - Fireworks
Industry - Storage Silo (accessory)   SUP   SUP   SUP
Industry - Trucking / Terminal Yard   SUP   P
Industry - Warehouse and Distribution P     P     P
Facility
Industry - Warehouse and Storage      P     P     P
(General)
Industry - Warehouse and Storage            SUP
(Hazardous)
Laboratory - Medical / Dental         P           P
Laboratory - Research / Scientific    P     P     P
Testing
Landscaping Business                  P           P
Library
Lodging - Bed and Breakfast Inns
Lodging - Boutique Hotel
Lodging - Hotel
Lodging - Long-Term Hotel (extended
stay)
Lodging - Motel
Manufactured Home Communities /
Developments*
Mobile Food Unit *                    TUP         TUP
Mobile Food Unit Parks / Courts *
Mortuary
Museum
Nursing and Residential Care Facility
Offices - (Medical / Dental /
Healthcare)
Outdoor Storage (accessory) *         P     P     P
Parking Garage - Private              SUP   SUP   SUP
Parking Garage - Public               P     P     P
Parking Lot - Accessory (Private)     P     P     P
Parking Lot - Public
Parking Lot - Stand Alone (Private)
Pawnshop                                          SUP
Payday Loan & Title Loan                          SUP
Establishments
Personal Services                     ADR         ADR
Professional Services                 P           P
Public Administrative Offices
Public Facility / Building            P     P     P
Public Utility Yard                   P     P     P
Recreational Vehicle (RV) Parks *     SUP   SUP   SUP
Research & Development Facility       P           P
Restaurant - Full Service             SUP         SUP
Restaurant - Limited Service          SUP         SUP
Restaurant - Snack and Nonalcoholic   SUP         SUP
Beverage Bars
Retail Sales - Boutique (< 5,000 sq.
ft.)
Retail Sales - Limited (5,001 -       P           P
10,000 sq. ft.)
Retail Sales - Semi-Limited (10,001 - P           P
30,000 sq. ft.)
Retail Sales - General (30,001 -      P           P
80,000 sq. ft.)
Retail Sales - Big Box (80,001 -      P           P
200,000 sq. ft.)
Retail Sales - Automotive (New) *           P     P
Retail Sales - Automotive (Used) *          P     P
Retail Sales - Fireworks (Temporary
Stands)
Retail Sales - Fireworks (Permanent)
Retail Sales - Large Equipment Sales  P     P     P
and Rental *
Retail Sales - Liquor Store           SUP
Retail Sales - Recreational Vehicles        P     P
*
Retail Sales - Nursery                SUP
Retail Sales - Secondhand / Thrift
Stores
Retail Sales - Shopping Center
Retail Sales - Shopping Mall                      SUP
Retail Sales - Tire Shop              P           P
Retail Sales - Tobacco / Vape Shop *  P
Retail Sales - Truck Sales                  P
(Commercial/Freight) *
Retail Sales Store w/Gasoline *       P     P     P
Riding School (Academy) or Stable
Rooming / Boarding House
Sales Lots (Retail and Wholesale)*    P     P     P
Schools - Commercial                  P           P
Schools - Post Secondary (private)    SUP         SUP
Schools - Post Secondary (public) *   SUP         SUP
Schools - Primary and Secondary
(private)
Schools - Primary and Secondary
(public) *
Security Guard Quarters               A     A     A
Shelter - Day
Shelter - Homeless (overnight)
Shooting Range (indoor) *                         SUP
Shooting Range (outdoor) *                  SUP
Storage Facility- Self Service        SUP/C SUP/C SUP/C
(indoor)
Storage Facility - Self Service       SUP/C SUP/C SUP/C
(traditional)
Tattoo / Body Piercing Studio         P
Taxidermy Shop                        P           P
Temporary Uses                        See Section
                                      10-12-03-34
Therapy / Rehabilitation Facility
Transit Station (passenger)           P     P     P
Truck Stop                            P     P     P
U-Pick Farm
Vineyard
Wholesale Sales - General             P     P     P
Wholesale Sales - Nursery             P     P     P
Winery / Cidery *                     P           P
Winetasting Establishment *           P           P
Wireless Communication Facility -     SUP   SUP   SUP
Large Scale*
Wireless Communication Facility -     ADR   ADR   ADR
Small Scale*
Zoo                                   SUP
Footnotes:
1   Any permitted structure or use that would be hazardous, obnoxious,
offensive or unsightly by reason of emission of odor, sound, vibration,
radioactivity, electrical interference, glare, liquid or solid wastes, smoke
or other air pollutants, said building or use shall be treated as a special
use, subject to the issuance of a special use permit
2   All land uses allowed by right in which a building permit is not required
will require the submission of an Administrative Development Review (ADR)
application to allow for the review of the land use, site plan, parking,
landscaping and compliance with all other applicable city code regulations and
laws.
 
(Ord. 3666, 4-21-2025)
10-07-04 BULK AND DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
   This section contains the requirements for lot size and coverage, scale and
massing, and setbacks for all types of development. These standards may be
further limited or modified by other applicable sections of this chapter. Some
uses are subject to use-specific standards or overlay district requirements
that impose stricter requirements than set forth in this subsection.
   (1)   Setback Reduction: The minimum setback provisions may be reduced with
a Director’s administrative determination in accordance with Section
10-01-02-3, a variance approval, or a planned unit development approval,
whichever may be most applicable.
   (2)   New Construction: All new construction shall comply with the current
bulk and dimensional standard schedule in effect at the time the building
permit was filed, excluding alternative setback, height, and/or area schedule
requirements as approved through a planned unit development, Development
Agreement, or other Planning application.
   (3)   Setback Measurements: All setbacks shall be measured from the lot /
property lines. Regardless of the noted setbacks in each section, in no case
shall new construction be placed within any public right-of-way or utility
easement unless express permission has been granted by the applicable agency/
jurisdiction.
   (4)   Residential Uses in Nonresidential Zones: Residential uses in
nonresidential zones shall have the same requirements as set forth in the R-
2 Zone. This includes, but is not limited to, requirements for setbacks,
frontages, lot size and dimensions, signage, and fencing.
   (5)   Projections:
      A.   No part of the building whatsoever, including cornices, canopies,
eaves, foundations, stairs, steps, footings, air conditioning units, etc.,
shall extend into any recorded or nonrecorded easement or easement area, nor
any existing or future right-of-way or right-of-way area unless the utility or
agency having jurisdiction over the easement or right-of-way has given written
permission for such projection to take place;
      B.   Should a structure be found to be in nonconformance with this
article, the following shall apply:
         1.   Structure shall be removed by and at the property owner’s expense
within five (5) days of a request by the City or utility to remove said
structure;
         2.   Structure can be removed by the City or utility after the five
(5) day deadline has expired, without the property owner’s permission and
without compensation to the property owner, and with or without notification,
as necessary for utility or right-of-way maintenance/improvements for any
existing or future public right-of-way areas or easements. Furthermore, City or
utility shall not be responsible for any damage caused to structure during the
process of removal;
         3.   Property owners shall sign and have notarized a statement
prepared by the City acknowledging the above items.
   (6)   Dimensional Standard Table:
Table 10-07-04:
Bulk and Dimensional Standards - Manufacturing and Industrial Districts2
Table 10-07-04:
Bulk and Dimensional Standards - Manufacturing and Industrial Districts2
Minimum Lot Size                                  M-1 M-2 I-P
   Interior Lot Area (sq. ft.)                 0   0   0
   Corner Lot Area (sq. ft.)                   0   0   0
   Minimum Lot Frontage (ft.)                  0   0   0
Scale and Massing                                 M-1 M-2 I-P
   Maximum Building Height (ft.)               03  03  03
Setbacks 2                                        M-1 M-2 I-P
   Front Yard Setback; Minimum (ft.)           20  20  20
   Interior Side Yard Setback; Minimum (ft.)   20  20  20
   Street Side Yard Setback; Minimum (ft.)     20  20  20
   Rear Yard Setback; Minimum (ft.)            10  10  10
   Alley (Garage/Parking) Setbacks: Minimum (ft5)  5   5
Table Footnotes:
1   Public land uses outlined in the applicable land use schedule located in
zoning districts other than the P-D (public) zone shall be permitted to utilize
the same height, setback, and area requirements as permitted in the P-D
(public) zone.
2   Where an industrial use is adjacent to a residential zoned property or
property being used for residential purposes, a 40' setback is required. The
40' setback may be reduced through the approval of a special use permit.
3   Regardless of the zoning district, if a new mixed-use, multi-family, or
non-residential structure is being built immediately adjacent to a single-
family residence, the maximum height of the new structure shall be 30' unless
allowed to exceed such maximum height by special use permit approval. For the
purposes of this section, immediately adjacent to shall mean within one hundred
fifty (150) feet, as measured from structure to structure.
 
(Ord. 3666, 4-21-2025)
10-07-05 SUPPLEMENTAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
   (1)   All industrial land uses conducted within five hundred (500) feet of a
residential district or residential structure shall be enclosed within a
building. Processes located at a greater distance may be located outdoors if
approved as a special use and if enclosed by a solid site obscuring wall or
fence at least six feet high. Chain link with slats is not permissible. (Ord.
3666, 4-21-2025)
ARTICLE 8: URBAN CORE ZONING DISTRICTS
Section
   
10-08-01      General Regulations
   
10-08-02      Districts
   
10-08-03      Uses
   
10-08-04      Bulk And Dimensional Standards
   
10-08-05      Density Allowances
   
10-08-06      Development Options; All Urban Core Districts
   
10-08-07      T-N Zone: Site Design And Development Standards
   
10-08-08      D-CC and D-CB Zones; General Provisions
   
10-08-08-1   Commerce On Public Property (Nonresidential Uses Only)
   
10-08-08-2   Demolition
   
10-08-08-3   Vacant Lots
   
10-08-08-4   Fences And Railings
   
10-08-08-5   Property And Building Maintenance
   
10-08-08-6   Minimum Parking Standards
   
10-08-08-7   Outdoor Storage
   
10-08-08-8   Signs
   
10-08-08-8.1   Sign Schedule
   
10-08-09      D-CC and D-CB Site Design And Development Standards
   
10-08-09-1   Lot Standards; Vehicle Access, Parking And Services
   
10-08-09-2   Building Facades And Frontage Types
   
10-08-09-3   Pedestrian Amenities Required
   
10-08-09-4   Standards For Outdoor Lighting
   
10-08-09-5   Streetscape Design Requirements
   
10-08-09-6   Standards For Landscaping And Screening
   
10-08-09-7   Standards For Murals
   
10-08-09-8   Standards For Outdoor Dining
10-08-01 GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   (1)   Applicability: The zoning district regulations and standards
established in this section shall apply to all districts established in this
section, unless specifically stated otherwise in a specific article in this
chapter. (Ord. 3667, 4-21-2025)
10-08-02 DISTRICTS:
   (1)   Intent: Caldwell’s urban core zoning districts are primarily intended
to:
      A.   Provide for and encourage a mix of complimentary residential and
non-residential land uses to take place in a variety of forms which are usually
categorized as one of three types: vertical mixed-use, horizontal mixed-use and
mixed-use walkable.
      B.    Create economic and social vitality and reduce vehicle miles
traveled.
      C.   Develop commercial and mixed-use areas that are safe, comfortable,
and attractive to pedestrians.
      D.   Provide flexibility in the location and design of new developments
and redevelopment to anticipate changes in the market.
      E.   Reinforce streets as public places that encourage pedestrian and
bicycle travel.
      F.   Provide roadway and pedestrian connections to residential areas.
      G.   Provide transitions between high traffic streets and neighborhoods.
      H.   Encourage efficient land use by facilitating compact, high-density
development and minimizing the amount of land that is needed for surface
parking.
      I.   Facilitate development (land use mix, density and design) that
supports public transit, where applicable.
      J.   Encourage adaptive reuses of buildings.
   (2)   District Map Symbol / Names: The city’s urban core zoning districts
are listed below. Changes have been made to the zoning district names, which
has no impact on current land use entitlements or property rights.
      When this zoning and development code refers to “urban core” zoning
districts or “D-CC”, “D-CB”, or “T-N” districts, it refers to these districts.
 
Old Zoning Map Old District Name New Zoning Map Symbol New District Name
Symbol
CC             City Center       D-CC                  Downtown City Center
CBD            Central Business  D-CB                  Downtown Central
               District                                Business
T-N            Traditional       T-N                   Downtown Transition
               Neighborhood                            Neighborhood
 
   (3)   District Purpose Statements:
      A.   D-CC ZONE: The Downtown City Center (D-CC) district is the heart of
downtown, providing opportunities for infill and redevelopment, while retaining
the traditional “Main Street” character. The district is intended to provide
areas by zoning procedures in accordance with the comprehensive plan that
accommodates a broad mix of pedestrian-oriented active uses such as retail
shops, restaurants, and entertainment venues, as well as urban residential
units and visitor lodging, to promote a lively street environment and expanded
hours of activity. Vertical mixed-use development projects will have active
uses on the first floor, with office users or urban residential units on the
upper floors. Where the upper floors contain a mix of office and residential,
the office uses shall be on the lower floors, with the residential uses above.
A pedestrian-friendly environment is encouraged in this district, with
buildings located near the front sidewalk and parking located to the side or
rear.
      B.   D-CB ZONE: The Downtown Central Business (D-CB) district provides
for more urban-intensity mixed-use development in areas of Downtown that
contain larger tracts of vacant or underutilized land. It is intended to
provide areas by zoning procedures in accordance with the comprehensive plan
that provides opportunities for concentrations of convention space, public and
semi-public governmental offices, hotels, urban residential and similar uses
that typically have more intensive land requirements or need larger parcels of
land than could be readily accommodated in other areas of Downtown. The outside
boundaries of the central business district, serves as a buffer area, providing
a gradual transition between the urban dense patterns of development desired in
other locations of Downtown and the surrounding neighborhoods. New buildings
should provide amenities for adjacent neighborhoods and enhance the appearance
of gateways downtown. A broad range of uses is permitted in this district
provided the design of the uses is compatible with the established character of
the area.
      C.   T-N ZONE: The purpose of this zone is to provide areas by zoning
procedures in accordance with the comprehensive plan that provides areas for
residential, mixed-use, cottage industries, adaptive reuse, and small-scale
retail, office and service uses. This zone generally abuts or serves as a
transitional zone between the more intense mixed-use center of downtown and
other surrounding neighborhoods. Development patterns usually include small
lots, in a compact development form within a non-automobile-depending
environment. (Ord. 3667, 4-21-2025)
10-08-03 USES:
   (1)   Purpose: This section sets forth the permitted and specially permitted
uses Caldwell’s urban core zoning districts. For Overlay Zoning Districts, see
Chapter 10, Article 11.
   (2)   Explanation and Key to Land Use Table Abbreviations:
      A.   Permitted Uses (P): A “P” in a cell indicates that a use is allowed
by right in the respective zoning district. Permitted uses are subject to all
other applicable regulations of this zoning ordinance.
      B.   Administrative Development Review (ADR): An “ADR” in a cell
indicates the use is allowed by right but requires the submission of an
Administrative Review application and the issuance of a Certificate of Zoning
Compliance prior to submission of building permits and the commencement of any
construction. In addition, all land uses allowed by right in which a building
permit is not required will require the submission of an Administrative
Development Review (ADR) application to allow for the review of the land use,
site plan, parking, landscaping and compliance with all other applicable city
code regulations and laws.
      C.   Special Use Permit (SUP). A “SUP” in a cell indicates that the use
is allowed in the respective zoning district only if reviewed and approved as a
special use, by the commission or hearing examiner in accordance with the
special use permit procedures of this chapter. A “
         1.   Special uses are subject to all other applicable regulations of
this chapter.
         2.   The “SUP” or “SUP/C” designation in a given district does not
constitute an authorization or assurance that such use will be permitted.
Rather, each special use permit application shall be evaluated as to its
probable effect on adjacent properties and surrounding areas, among other
factors, and may be approved, approved with conditions, or denied pursuant to
the procedures in Section
10-03-04, Special Use Permits.
      D.   Uses Accessory to the Principal Use (A). An “A” in a cell indicates
the land use is permitted only as an accessory land use to an approved
principal use only.
      E.   Temporary Use Only (TUP). A “TUP” in any cell indicates that the use
is only permitted as a temporary use only. Temporary use permits may be
required in accordance with Section
10-12-03-34.
      F.   Specific Use Provisions (*). A “*” in any cell indicates that
regardless of whether a use is allowed by right, or as a special use, temporary
use, or accessory use, additional standards may be applicable to the use. Refer
to
Chapter 10, Article 12 of this chapter for Specific Use Provisions.
      G.   Uses Not Allowed. An empty cell indicates that the use is not
allowed in the respective zoning district.
   (3)   Classification of New and Unlisted Uses:
      A.   If a proposed use of property is not specifically listed in this
table, the use shall be prohibited unless the Director, upon the request of an
applicant, determines that a proposed use not listed in this table, is
equivalent to a listed permitted or special use. In making the decision, the
Director shall consider the following:
         1.   The impacts on public services and activities associated with the
proposed use are substantially similar to those of 1 or more of the uses listed
in the applicable base districts as allowed.
         2.   The proposed use shall not involve a higher level of activity or
density than 1 or more of the uses listed in the applicable base districts as
allowed.
         3.   The proposed use is consistent with the purpose of the district
in which the use is proposed to be located.
         4.   The proposed use is in substantial conformance with the goals and
objectives of the Comprehensive Plan.
         5.   The proposed use is not similar to a use that is specifically
listed as prohibited.
         6.   The Director may also use past precedent, case law, and legal
opinion in making the determination.
         7.   When considering a use not listed within the table, the Director
shall also determine whether additional use-specific standards are necessary.
      B.   If the Director denies an application for such a requested use, the
applicant shall have the right, within the period of ten (10) days from the
date of such disapproval, to appeal the Director’s decision to the City
Council. The decision of the City Council shall be final.
   (4)   Mix of Uses / Buildings:
      A.   More than one classification of uses and more than one use within
these use classifications shall be permitted on a lot or parcel in the urban
core districts without a planned unit development application approval, if the
proposed individual uses are permitted uses or special uses, or as otherwise
provided within the mixed-use special use provisions.
      B.   More than one principal structure or building, without having a
planned unit development, are allowed upon a single development site, with the
exception of a site utilized for or containing single family residential,
unless otherwise permitted by this Article.
   (5)   Land Use Schedule:
      A.   The following is a list of allowed land uses within the urban core
zones.
      B.   Some uses shown within the table below may be prohibited based on a
specific overlay zone. Refer to Section
10-11-07: Special Development and Urban Design Overlay Districts for prohibited
uses.
      C.   Where a conflict exists between this schedule and the overlay
district prohibitions, the more restrictive shall govern.
 
Table 10-08-03:
Land Uses - Urban Core Districts (T-N, D-CC, D-CB)11,12,13,16
P                                Permitted
A                                Permitted as an Accessory Use to a Legal
                                 Primary Use
ADR                              Requires Administrative Site/Development
                                 Review
SUP                              Requires a Special Use Permit
SUP/C                            Requires a Special Use Permit at City Council
                                 Level
TUP                              Permitted as a Temporary Use with a Temporary
                                 Use Permit
Blank Cell                       Not Permitted
*                                Land Use is subject to Specific Use Provisions
Land Uses                        T-N D-CC10   D-CB
Accessory Buildings and Uses *   P            SUP
Adult Business *
Agriculture, General
Aircraft Repair and Service
Airplane / Helicopter Hanger
Airport / Airport Terminal
Ambulance Service                P
Amusement Centers
Animal Shelter
Artist Studio / Gallery *        P   P        P
Arts, Entertainment and              P4       SUP
Recreation Facilities (Indoor) *
Arts, Entertainment and
Recreation Facilities (Outdoor)
*
Auction House
Automotive - Body Shop
Automotive - Car Wash *
Automotive - Gas / Service
Station (standalone) *
Automotive - Rental Lot
Automotive - Repair Services *
Automotive - Storage (Indoor
Only)
Automotive - Storage (Outdoor)
Automotive - Tow Yard
Bail Bond Use
Brewery - Large Scale*
Brewery - Small Scale*           P   P        P
Cemetery
Churches / Places of Religious   SUP SUP      SUP
Worship *
Clinic / Hospital - Large Animal
Clinic / Hospital - Small Animal P
Club / Lodge                     P            SUP
Commercial Dairy
Commercial Kennel
Community Center (private)                    SUP
Community Center (public)                     P
Community Garden                 P            P
                                 Any permitted project may go through the condo
Condominiums                     plat process. See Definition of Condominium in
                                 Section
                                 10-01-10
Conference / Convention Center       SUP      SUP
Contractor s Shop with Storage
Yard *
Correctional / Detention
Facility
Cottage Industries *             P            P
Crematorium
Dance Hall / Night Club          SUP SUP      SUP
Daycare/Preschool - In- Home -
Family/Group                     P
(12 or <) *
Daycare/Preschool - Center (13   SUP
or >) *
Distillery - Large Scale
Distillery - Small Scale; Craft  SUP SUP      SUP
Donation Containers or Pods *    TUP TUP      TUP
Dormitory
Drinking Establishments -        SUP SUP      SUP
Liquor*
Dwelling - Accessory Dwelling    P1           P1
Unit (ADU) *
Dwelling - Caretaker             A
Dwelling - Cottage Courts /      P3           SUP3
Housing
Dwelling - Group Home /
Residence                        P
(8 or < residents)
Dwelling - Group Home /
Residence
(9 or > residents)
Dwelling - Live / Work15         P   P        P
Dwelling - Multifamily (Triplex) P3           SUP3
Dwelling - Multifamily           P3           SUP3
(Fourplex)
Dwelling - Multifamily           P3  P3,6     P3
Apartments (Small Scale)
Dwelling - Multifamily               SUP/C3,6 SUP/C3
Apartments (Large Scale)
Dwelling - Single Family;        P
Detached
Dwelling - Single Family;
Townhouse                        P
(3 or < attached)
Dwelling - Single Family;
Townhouse                                     SUP
(4 or > attached)
Dwelling - Single Family;        P
Manufactured Home*
Dwelling - Transitional Home
Dwelling - Two-Family (Duplex)   P
Elevated Pedestrian Walkways *   SUP SUP      SUP
Equipment Repair & Service -
Large *
Equipment Repair & Service -
Small *
Equipment Repair & Service -
Household *
Event Center                         SUP      SUP
Farmer s Market                  SUP SUP      SUP
Farmstand - Off-Site
Farmstand - On-Site
Financial Institution                         P
Financial Institution (with                   SUP
drive through) *
Fitness Facility - Small         P            P
Fitness Facility - Large         SUP          SUP
Farmer s Market                      P
Flea Market
Flex Space *                     P4  P4       SUP5
Food Bank / Soup Kitchen         SUP          SUP
Food Stand                       P            P
Fraternity / Sorority House
Frozen Food Locker Facility
Funeral Home
Greenhouse - Commercial
Helipad
Hospital
Industry - Craftsman / Artisan       SUP      SUP
Industry - Light Industrial
Industry - Medium Industrial
Industry - Heavy Industrial*
Industry - Animal Slaughterhouse
Industry - Information / Data
Centers *
Industry - Fireworks
Industry - Storage Silo
(accessory)
Industry - Trucking / Terminal
Yard
Industry - Warehouse and
Distribution Facility
Industry - Warehouse and Storage
(General)
Industry - Warehouse and Storage
(Hazardous)
Laboratory - Medical / Dental
Laboratory - Research /
Scientific Testing
Landscaping Business
Library                          P            SUP
Lodging - Bed and Breakfast Inn  P
Lodging - Boutique Hotel         P   P        P
Lodging - Hotel                      SUP      SUP
Lodging - Long-Term Hotel            SUP      SUP
(extended stay)
Manufactured Home Community /    SUP
Development
Mixed Use - Large Scale*         P5  P5,6     P5
Mixed Use - Small Scale*         P5  P5,6     P5
Mobile Food Unit *               TUP TUP8     TUP
Mobile Food Unit Parks / Courts  SUP          ADR
*
Mortuary
Museum                           SUP SUP      SUP
Nursing and Residential Care
Facility
Offices - (Medical / Dental /    P   P        P
Healthcare)
Outdoor Storage *
Parking Garage - Private             SUP      SUP
Parking Garage - Public              P        P
Parking Lot - Accessory          A   A        A
(Private)
Parking Lot - Public                 P        P
Parking Lot - Stand Alone                     SUP
(Private)
Pawnshop
Payday Loan & Title Loan
Establishments
Pedestrian Tunnel                SUP SUP      SUP
Personal Services                P   SUP      P
Professional Services            P   P6       P
Public Administrative Offices    P   P        P
Public Facility / Building       SUP P        P
Public Utility Yard              SUP
Recreational Vehicle (RV) Park
Research & Development Facility
Restaurant - Full Service        P   P        P
Restaurant - Limited Service     P   P        P
Restaurant - Snack and           P   P        P
Nonalcoholic Beverage Bars
Retail Sales - Boutique (< 5,000 P   P        P
sq. ft.)
Retail Sales - Limited (5,001 -  P   P        P
10,000 sq. ft.)
Retail Sales - Semi-Limited                   SUP
(10,001 - 30,000 sq. ft.)
Retail Sales - General (30,001 -
80,000 sq. ft.)
Retail Sales - Big Box (80,001 -
200,000 sq. ft.)
Retail Sales - Automotive (New)
*
Retail Sales - Automotive (Used)
*
Retail Sales - Fireworks         P14 P14      P14
(Temporary Stands)
Retail Sales - Fireworks
(Permanent)
Retail Sales - Large Equipment
Sales and Rental *
Retail Sales - Liquor Store                   SUP
Retail Sales - Nursery
Retail Sales - Recreational
Vehicles *
Retail Sales - Secondhand /      SUP SUP      SUP
Thrift Stores
Retail Sales - Shopping Center
Retail Sales - Shopping Mall
Retail Sales - Tire Shop
Retail Sales - Tobacco / Vape        SUP      SUP
Shop *
Retail Sales - Truck Sales
(Commercial/Freight) *
Retail Sales Store w/Gasoline*                SUP10
Rooming / Boarding House         SUP
Sales Lots - (Retail and
Wholesale)*
Schools - Commercial             P
Schools - Post Secondary                      SUP
(private)
Schools - Post Secondary                      SUP
(public) *
Schools - Primary and Secondary  SUP
(private)
Schools - Primary and Secondary  SUP
(public) *
Security Guard Quarters          A   A        A
Shelter - Day                    SUP          SUP
Shelter - Emergency              P
Shelter - Homeless (overnight)   SUP          SUP
Shooting Range (indoor) *                     SUP
Shooting Range (outdoor) *
Storage - Self Service (indoors)
Storage - Self Service
(traditional)
Tattoo / Body Piercing Studio    SUP SUP      P
Taxidermy Shop
Temporary Uses                   See Section
                                 10-12-03-33
Therapy / Rehabilitation
Facility
Transit Station (passenger)      SUP SUP      P
Truck Stop
U-Pick Farm                      P
Vineyard
Wholesale Sales - General
Wholesale Sales - Nursery
Winery / Cidery*                 SUP          SUP
Winetasting Establishment*       P   P4       P
Wireless Communication Facility
- Large Scale *
Wireless Communication Facility  ADR ADR      ADR
- Small Scale *
Zoo
Table Footnotes:
1   Accessory dwelling units are only permitted in conjunction with an existing
legal single family detached home and when in compliance with the accessory use
section of this code.
2   Permitted when part of a mixed-use building complying with footnote #6.
3   See also Chapter 10, Article 14 for Multi-family developments.
4   Limited to a maximum square footage of 5,000 square feet. Proposed uses
exceeding 5,000 square feet shall require a special use permit.
5   See
10-12-03 for specific use provisions.
6   The ground floor of all buildings, including parking decks, adjacent to a
public street, or around open spaces, must incorporate active ground floor
uses, except at breaks for pedestrian pathways or parking access. Active uses
include retail; restaurants; arts, entertainment and recreation; or personal
service uses. All non-active uses on the ground floor will require a special
use permit.
7   Residential and nonresidential condo projects must comply with the condo
plat requirements of this chapter.
8   Permitted only when part of a public event for Indian Creek Plaza.
9   Drive-In Theaters shall require a Special Use Permit.
10   Drive through and drive-in establishments are prohibited in the D-CC zone.
Walk up windows are encouraged.
11   See Chapter 10, Article 12 for specific use standards not specifically
listed in this table.
12   All Drive through establishments must meet the requirements of
Chapter 10, Article 12.
13   All Establishments serving alcohol must comply with the requirements of
Chapter 10, Article 12.
14   Permitted as a temporary fireworks stand only. Requires a fireworks permit
through the City Clerk s office.
15   The area designated for the work component must be located on the ground
level and occupy not less than twenty-five (25) percent, and no more than fifty
(50) percent of the total gross floor area of the live/work unit. Uses for the
work component are limited to permitted or specially permitted uses (required
special use permit) within the base zoning district.
16   All land uses allowed by right in which a building permit is not required
will require the submission of an Administrative Development Review (ADR)
application to allow for the review of the land use, site plan, parking,
landscaping and compliance with all other applicable city code regulations and
laws.
 
(Ord. 3667, 4-21-2025)
10-08-04 BULK AND DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
   This section contains the requirements for lot size and coverage, scale and
massing, and setbacks for all types of development. These standards may be
further limited or modified by other applicable sections of this chapter. Some
uses and/or zoning districts are subject to use-specific standards, design and
development standards, or overlay district requirements that impose stricter
requirements than set forth in this subsection.
   (1)   Setback Reduction: The minimum setback yard provisions may be reduced
with a Director’s administrative determination in accordance with Section
10-01-02-3, a variance approval, or a planned unit development approval,
whichever may be most applicable.
   (2)   New Construction: All new construction shall comply with the current
dimensional standard schedule in effect at the time the building permit was
filed, excluding alternative setback, height, and/or area schedule requirements
as approved through a planned unit development, Development Agreement, or other
Planning application.
   (3)   Setback Measurements: Regardless of the noted setbacks in each
section, in no case shall new construction be placed within any public right-
of-way or utility easement unless express permission has been granted by the
applicable agency/jurisdiction.
      A.   For new construction, all setbacks are measured from the property
line.
      B.   For additions to existing single family residential structures,
front and street side yard setbacks may be measured from the back of sidewalk
or anticipated sidewalk location where no sidewalk currently exists, when the
property is constrained, and an approval is granted by the Director after the
submission of a Minor- Administrative Determination application.
      C.   All other setbacks are the distance between a building’s outermost
edge of the outermost foundation wall and the lot/property line.
   (4)   Stricter Standards and Provisions Govern: If the site and building
design and development standards specific to a zone are stricter than the
provisions listed in this section, the more restrictive shall govern.
   (5)   Bulk and Dimensional Standards Table:
Table 10-08-04:
Bulk and Dimensional Standards - Urban Core Districts
Table 10-08-04:
Bulk and Dimensional Standards - Urban Core Districts
Minimum Lot Size                                       T-N   D-CC1     D-CB1
   Interior Lot Area (sq. ft.)                      2,000 0         0
   Corner Lot Area (sq. ft.)                        2,500 0         0
   Minimum Lot Width / Frontage (ft.)               20    0         0
Scale and Massing                                      T-N   D-CC      D-CB
   Minimum Building Height; new construction (storien/a   2         26
   Maximum Building Height (ft.)                    404   3 stories None4
                                                             or 454,5
Setbacks2                                              T-N   D-CC1     D-CB1
   Garage Setback; Minimum (ft.)                    20    0         0
   Living Area/Front Setback; Minimum (ft.)         5     0         0
   Living Area/Front Setback; Maximum (ft.)         15    51        101
   Interior Side Yard Setback; Minimum (ft.)        0     03        03
   Street Side Yard Setback; Minimum (ft.)          5     03        03
   Rear Yard Setback; Minimum (ft.)                 10    0         03
   Alley (Garage/Parking) Setbacks: Minimum (ft.)   5     5         5
Table Footnotes:
1   The maximum is for at least thirty percent (30%) of the front building
elevation. A deeper setback may be granted if it provides publicly accessible
and usable space such as plazas, courts, public seating area, public art,
water features, and the like.
2   A setback of 20' is required for any non-residential structure or building
adjacent to a residential zoning district.
3   There are no minimum or maximum side yard, street side, or rear yard
setback requirements, except for all structures shall conform to the vision
triangle standards set forth in section 10-07-07 of this chapter and the
applicable fire and building code requirements for attached structures,
firewalls, and related requirements.
4   Regardless of the zoning district, if a new mixed-use, multi-family, or
non-residential structure is being built immediately adjacent to a single-
family residence, the maximum height of the new structure shall be 30' unless
allowed to exceed such maximum height by special use permit approval. For the
purposes of this section, immediately adjacent to shall mean within one
hundred fifty (150) feet, as measured from structure to structure.
5   There is no maximum building height for all structures located within the
“downtown area” which is defined as the area bordered on the north by the
railroad tracks, on the south by Dearborn Street, on the west by Fourth Avenue
and on the east by Twelfth Avenue.
6   Single tenant buildings may be one-story.
 
   (6)   Encroachments:
      A.   Chimneys, overhangs, cornices, eaves, bay windows, porches,
canopies, balconies, platforms, covered patios, or other similar architectural
projections, may encroach into any setback, easement or right of way by no more
than four feet (4'), subject to compliance with applicable standards of the
fire and building code and provided any such encroachments are a minimum of
fourteen feet six inches (14'6") above sidewalk or street/alley grade.
      B.   Public spaces may encroach into the setbacks from Indian Creek.
      C.   No encroachments of any type are allowed in, on or over any easement
(s), except that such encroachments may be allowed with written permission from
any affected utility or agency having jurisdiction over the easement and with a
signed and notarized statement, as prepared by the city, from the property
owner acknowledging that: structure shall be removed by and at the property
owner’s expense within five (5) days of a request by the city or utility to
remove said structure; structure can be removed by the city or utility after
the five (5) day deadline has expired, without the property owner’s permission
and without compensation to the property owner, and with or without
notification, as necessary for utility or right of way maintenance/improvements
for any existing or future public right of way areas or easements; and the city
and/or utility and/or agency having jurisdiction over the easement shall not be
held liable or responsible for any damages to or replacement costs for said
structure.
      D.   Downtown Districts: If used, arcades, galleries, colonnades and
awnings, and the like may encroach into the public right of way to within
twenty- four inches (24") to thirty inches (30") of the curb face if a street
or completely to the far edge of the alley if an alley. All such encroachments
must be a minimum of fourteen feet six inches (14'6") above sidewalk grade or
alley grade, whichever is applicable.
      E.   Balconies, bay windows, eaves, cornices, overhangs, and cantilevered
rooms on upper floors may encroach into the public right of way to within
twenty-four (24) to thirty inches (30") of the curb face.
      F.   All public right of way encroachments shall be a minimum of fourteen
feet six inches (14'6") above sidewalk grade.
      G.   Vision Triangle: There shall be nothing that shall interfere with
the vision triangle standards set forth in section 10-07-07 of this chapter.
      H.   Placement Of Nonpermanent Items: The placement of nonpermanent
items, such as chairs and tables, in alleys and right-of-way on a temporary or
seasonal basis, shall be regulated by section 10-08-09-9. (Ord. 3667, 4-21-
2025)
10-08-05 DENSITY ALLOWANCES:
   The density allowances set forth below are applicable to all urban core
zoning districts and are based on the place type land use designations within
the City of Caldwell Comprehensive Plan.
Table 10-08-05:
Density Allowances - Urban Core Districts
Comprehensive Compatible Zoning
Plan Land Use Districts         Minimum Density Maximum Density Density Bonus
Designation
Table 10-08-05:
Density Allowances - Urban Core Districts
Comprehensive Compatible Zoning
Plan Land Use Districts         Minimum Density Maximum Density Density Bonus
Designation
Urban         R-2, R-3, C-1, T- 4 du/ac         10 du/ac        Up to 16 du/ac1
Neighborhood  N, P-D
Downtown      D-CB, D-CC, T-N,  25 du/ac2       60 du/ac        60+ du/ac1
              P-D
Table Footnotes:
1   See Section
10-03-18 of this chapter for Density Bonus Program criteria and requirements.
2   Not applicable in the T-N and D-CB zones for directly permitted uses.
 
(Ord. 3667, 4-21-2025)
10-08-06 DEVELOPMENT OPTIONS; ALL URBAN CORE ZONES:
   Different development options are offered in districts where residential is
an allowed use, to accommodate a variety of community and lifestyle choices.
The options described in this section may be used at the property owner’s
election.
   (1)   Standard Conventional Development: “Standard Conventional development”
is any development that is not part of an approved density bonus program,
conservation development, planned unit development or master planned community.
All regulations and provisions of the code are applicable
   (2)   Density Bonus Program Development:
      A.   The density bonus program development option offers additional
density if a project meets certain criteria. The density bonus program
standardizes how additional density is awarded and creates standards that are
more evenly enforced throughout the city. The program addresses unique goals
and desired development types in different parts of the city. Density bonuses
are not applicable in the R-1 zone.
      B.   Property owners may select which components are most relevant to
their project in order to achieve a certain level of density increase. Density
increases are given based on a scoring matrix in accordance with Section
10-03-18: Density Bonus Program, of this chapter. (Ord. 3667, 4-21-2025)
10-08-07 T-N ZONE SITE DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS: 
   (1)   Applicability: The provisions within this section are applicable to
the T-N district, unless otherwise noted herein. The provisions listed in this
section are in addition to all other standards and regulations as specified
within this chapter.
   (2)   In addition to the requirements of this section, new construction,
additions, or any exterior renovation on all properties within the Indian Creek
Corridor (“within” meaning either completely within or partially within any
portion of the Indian Creek corridor) are also subject to provisions set forth
in
Chapter 10, Article 11, SO-1: Indian Creek Corridor Overlay Zone of this
chapter.
   (3)   In addition to the requirements in this section, new construction,
additions, or alteration of properties within a designated historic district
contained within the traditional (transitional) neighborhood zone are also
subject to provisions set forth in
Chapter 10, Article 11 of this chapter.
   (4)   Any design guidelines, standards, or policies adopted by the City
Council are applicable and enforceable within the district.
   (5)   Fencing:
      A.   Fences within the T-N zone are permitted and shall be in accordance
with Section
10-02-07 of this chapter, except that fencing materials shall be made out of
wood, vinyl, wrought iron, masonry or similar materials approved by the
director. Chain link fencing, and any type of wire fencing shall be prohibited,
except as otherwise specified herein.
      B.   Construction Sites: A maximum of six feet (6') high chain link
fencing with black fabric is permitted only around construction sites that have
been approved by the city and in accordance with this section. (Ord. 3667, 4-
21-2025)
10-08-08 D-CC AND D-CB; GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   (1)   Applicability: The provisions within this section are applicable to
both the Downtown City Center (D-CC) and Downtown Central Business (D-CB)
districts, unless otherwise noted herein.
   (2)   In addition to the requirements of this section, new construction,
additions, or any exterior renovation on all properties within the Indian Creek
Corridor (“within” meaning either completely within or partially within any
portion of the Indian Creek corridor) are also subject to provisions set forth
in
Chapter 10, Article 11, SO-1: Indian Creek Corridor Overlay Zone of this
chapter.
   (3)   In addition to the requirements in this section, new construction,
additions, or alteration of properties within a designated historic district
contained within the downtown districts are also subject to provisions set
forth in
Chapter 10, Article 11 of this chapter.
   (4)   Any design guidelines, standards, or policies adopted by the City
Council are applicable and enforceable within the districts. (Ord. 3667, 4-21-
2025)
10-08-08-1 COMMERCE ON PUBLIC PROPERTY (NONRESIDENTIAL USES ONLY):
   (1)   The use of the public right-of- way for the exchange of goods or
services shall comply with all of the following:
      A.   The use on the public right-of-way is associated with a business
located immediately adjacent to the public right-of-way location.
      B.   The location of the business activity does not create a safety
hazard for motorists, bicyclists, or pedestrians.
      C.   The business activity maintains sufficient minimum walking space of
four feet (4') for the free passage of pedestrians along the sidewalk and
access to other adjacent businesses.
      D.   The location and design of the business activity does not
unreasonably obstruct the visibility of any adjacent businesses.
      E.   The business activity does not generate litter, noise or other
nuisances that would be objectionable to the public or other businesses in the
immediate area, including:
         1.   Adequate refuse containers shall be provided.
         2.   Hours of operation are sensitive to the surrounding neighborhood.
         3.   No music or sound is amplified.
         4.   The area can be maintained in a clean condition.
         5.   Physical improvements can be removed or secured when not in
operation.
         6.   Outdoor water faucets and the ability to adequately wash or clean
the outdoor space on a routine basis are available.
         7.   The design of any improvements is consistent with the design
requirements for the downtown districts.
         8.   The location of a business engaged in the sale of alcoholic
beverages is separated from the public space with a barrier, fence,
landscaping, or other demarcation.
         9.   The location of a temporary sandwich board shall meet the
requirements set forth in this section and shall be removed when the primary
business is closed. (Ord. 3667, 4-21-2025)
10-08-08-2 DEMOLITION:
   (1)   Building Permits: Except in cases of public emergency as determined by
the city’s building official or by court order, no permit for the demolition of
a structure in the downtown districts shall be granted without first receiving
approval for the demolition from planning and zoning.
   (2)   Permit Application: Any person seeking demolition in either of the
downtown districts shall file a completed application, checklist, and all
appropriate fees with Planning and Zoning on forms prescribed by the
department, accompanied by such data and information necessary to ensure the
fullest presentation of facts, as determined by the Director. The Director
shall have the authority to require any additional information or data
necessary to aid in understanding and reviewing the request. All application
fees must be paid prior to formal acceptance of any application.
   (3)   Permit Approval:
      A.   No approval will be granted unless a replacement land use and
timeline has been proposed, reviewed, and approved.
         1.   If the proposed timeline for a replacement structure or use
exceeds one (1) year but is less than two (2) years, a plan detailing how the
property will be maintained will be required to be submitted, reviewed, and
approved.
         2.   If a proposed timeline for a replacement structure or use exceeds
two (2) years, or the proposed replacement structure or use does not commence
within two (2) years, the city may require the property to be landscaped with a
combination of decorative rock and native grass until such time as construction
commences.
         3.   If common walls between two buildings are exposed due to
demolition, the person performing the demolition shall be responsible for
treating the walls with an architectural treatment that is similar to the front
façade of the building, and with materials and colors as outlined within the
design standards of this section. The wall treatment shall be in place within
ninety (90) days of the date of demolition, unless a longer period is
authorized at the time of approval of the demolition plans and shall be the
financial responsibility of the owner of the property upon which the demolished
building was located.
            (A)   Temporary treatment may be approved by the Director through
the submission of an Administrative Determination application, for a period of
time not to exceed one-hundred and eighty (180) days while development
approvals are being obtained. (Ord. 3667, 4-21-2025)
10-08-08-3 VACANT LOTS:
   Any dirt lot within the downtown city center district kept vacant for more
than one hundred eighty (180) days, and with no plans for development to begin
within one hundred eighty (180) days, shall be landscaped with a combination of
decorative rock and native plants and/or grass landscaped and thereafter
maintained in good order for the prevention of slum and blight. Landscaping
shall be in accordance with a plan approved by planning and zoning. The
landscaping shall be appropriate to an urban park or garden. All plant material
shown on the approved plan shall be watered, fertilized, pruned, kept free from
weeds and litter and replaced if diseased, injured or dead, consistent with
good horticultural practices. Such lots shall not be used for storage or
parking with the exception of a publicly owned lot being utilized for public
parking and in compliance with the parking and surfacing requirements of this
chapter. (Ord. 3667, 4-21-2025)
10-08-08-4 FENCES AND RAILINGS:
   (1)   Allowances: Fences within the downtown districts are prohibited,
except for fencing and/or screening of parking lots, outdoor dining areas,
trash enclosures, outdoor service and equipment areas, and construction sites
in accordance with this section.
   (2)   Fence Height, Materials and Location:
      A.   Fencing materials shall be in accordance with this section. Chain
link fencing, and any type of wire fencing shall be prohibited within the
downtown districts, except as otherwise provided herein.
      B.   The maximum fence height within the downtown zoning districts shall
be no more six feet (6'), unless otherwise specified below and elsewhere in
this subsection.
      C.   Vision Triangle: There shall be no fencing exceeding three feet (3')
in height in the vision triangle.
      D.   All fencing placed on any portion of the front property or on any
portion of the side property lines measured twenty feet (20') back from the
front property line, or any area in between said lines, shall not exceed three
feet (3') in height and shall be constructed out of black decorative wrought
iron.
      E.   Construction Sites:
         1.   A maximum of six feet (6') high chain link fencing with black
fabric is permitted only around construction sites that have been approved by
the city and in accordance with this section.
      F.   Fences in Rights of Way: There shall be no fencing in or on public
right of way or future public right of way, unless approved by the city for
outdoor dining purposes, or otherwise through an encroachment permit or license
agreement.
      G.   Fences; Nonconforming: Fences which are nonconforming for any reason
but were in place prior to the adoption date hereof may continue if maintained
in good condition and repair, and provided they do not impede the safety of
motorists or otherwise present a hazard. Safety and/or hazardous issues shall
be remedied immediately. However, nonconforming fences may not be replaced
unless replaced with materials in accordance with this article.
   (3)   Railings:
      A.   Safety Railings:
         1.   Safety railings are required for pedestrian areas adjacent to
Indian Creek and as required by the International Code Council (ICC) codes
where a change of grade occurs, such as dooryards or light courts facades.
         2.   Safety railings shall comply with ICC Codes and be a minimum of
forty-two (42) inches in height. No opening shall allow a 4-inch sphere to pass
through.
      B.   Decorative Railings:
         1.   Decorative railings or low fencing less than forty-two (42)
inches in height may be used to separate outdoor at-grade dining areas,
dooryards, lightcourts, or forecourts from public pedestrian areas where safety
railing is not required.
         2.   The railings shall not impact pedestrian visibility.
         3.   The railings should reflect a turn-of-the-century style.
      C.   Materials: Railings shall be constructed of wrought iron, corten
steel, or powder-coated steel or aluminum. (Ord. 3667, 4-21-2025)
10-08-08-5 PROPERTY AND BUILDING MAINTENANCE:
   (1)   Purpose: This subsection shall be construed to secure its expressed
intent, which is to ensure public health, safety and welfare, to ensure
protection of property values, and to preserve the character and integrity of
the downtown.
   (2)   Applicability: These provisions shall apply to all existing
residential and non-residential structures and all existing premises and
constitute minimum requirements and standards for such premises and structures.
   (3)   Responsibility: The owner and/or occupant of the structure or premises
shall maintain the structures and the premises in compliance with the
requirements of this section.
      A.   Vacant Lots: Every owner of any vacant lot within the Downtown
Districts has the duty to keep the lot clean and free from garbage, litter,
standing water, debris, parked motor vehicles other than those parked in a
lawfully existing parking or loading facility, and all things causing the
property to be detrimental to the public health, safety, welfare or to the
aesthetics of the downtown districts or properties in the vicinity.
      B.   Exterior Property Maintenance: All exterior property and premises
shall be maintained in a clean, safe, and sanitary condition and free of trash,
debris, junk, surface hazards, weeds, or other nuisances.
      C.   Sidewalk Maintenance: The owner and/or occupant of any building or
premises shall be responsible for keeping all adjacent sidewalks, walkways and
similar right of way areas maintained free from nuisances and hazardous
conditions, including weeds, trash, debris, snow and ice.
      D.   Fences: All fences shall be maintained structurally sound and in
good condition and repair in accordance with this chapter.
      E.   Exterior Structure Maintenance: All exterior surfaces, including but
not limited to, doors, doors and window frames, cornices, porches, trim,
balconies, decks, and similar shall be maintained in good condition.
         1.   Exterior Wood Surfaces: Exterior wood surfaces shall be protected
from the elements and decay by painting or other protective covering or
treatment approved by Planning and Zoning.
         2.   Siding and Masonry Joints: All siding and masonry joints, as well
as those between the building envelope and the perimeter of windows, doors and
skylights, shall be maintained, weather resistant and watertight.
         3.   Metal Surfaces: All metal surfaces subject to rust or corrosion
shall be coated to inhibit such rust and corrosion, and all surfaces with rust
or corrosion shall be stabilized and coated to inhibit future rust and
corrosion. Oxidation stains shall be removed from exterior surfaces. Surfaces
designed for stabilization by oxidation are exempt from this requirement.
         4.   Exterior Walls: All exterior walls shall be free from holes,
breaks, and loose or rotting materials; and maintained weatherproof and
properly surface-coated where required to prevent deterioration.
         5.   Decorative Features and Overhang Extensions: All cornices, trim,
wall facings, and similar decorative features shall be maintained in good
repair with proper anchorage and in safe condition. All overhang extensions
including, but not limited to, canopies, marquees, signs, awnings, fire
escapes, standpipes and exhaust ducts shall be maintained in good repair and
condition.
         6.   Noxious Uses: No area or structure shall be used or occupied in
any manner creating dangerous, injurious, noxious or hazardous conditions to
the surrounding areas.
         7.   Compliance with Design Guidelines and Standards: All property
shall be maintained in compliance with this chapter and with any adopted design
guidelines, standards and provisions.
   (4)   Failure to Maintain; Unlawful. No owner of a property or structure
shall, by willful action or willful neglect, fail to provide sufficient and
reasonable care, maintenance and upkeep to such property or structure,
including the maintenance and upkeep to areas within the public right-of-way,
that are, by virtue of other codes and ordinances, the responsibility of the
property owner to maintain. For the purposes of this section, maintenance and
upkeep shall include but not be limited to keeping the exterior surfaces of the
building compliant with design guidelines. All sites and areas around the
building shall be kept free of debris, garbage, weeds, and free from dead or
dying trees or landscaping or any other condition that constitutes a nuisance
or other violation of the City Code. Maintenance shall also mean continuing
compliance with all the conditions and standards of this chapter, including any
special conditions of a permit, land use entitlement, development agreement, or
design review approval given by the city or the design review commission.
      Violation of this section will constitute a nuisance and may be subject
to any administrative, criminal, civil, or equitable remedy allowed by law and
in accordance with Caldwell City Code and this chapter. (Ord. 3667, 4-21-2025)
10-08-08-6 MINIMUM PARKING STANDARDS:
   (1)   Intent: The intent of parking regulations within the downtown district
is:
      A.   To encourage the redevelopment of smaller sites and the preservation
and adaptive reuse of historic structures in Downtown by providing a more
flexible approach to parking.
      B.   To create a friendly, walkable, and pedestrian-focused environment.
      C.   To minimize the visual and physical impact of surface parking lots
on the downtown pedestrian environment.
      D.   To reduce the predominance of single-purpose parking lots in
Downtown.
      E.   To make efficient use of available on-street parking.
   (2)   Standards:
      A.   Downtown parking shall comply with ½ of the parking requirements as
specified in Section
10-02-05.
      B.   The parking requirements shall be met through any combination of on
or off-street parking, on or off-site parking, leased parking, public right of
way parking, or shared parking with another use or site.
      C.   Except, residential or multi-family within the downtown districts
are prohibited from using off-site parking or public right of way parking as a
method of meeting their off-street parking requirements and must comply with
the full parking requirements as specified within Section
10-02-05.
      D.   Where permissible, off-site or off-street parking used in meeting
the requirements shall be located within eight hundred feet (800') of the site.
      E.   Shared Parking: The amount of shared parking allowed with another
use or site shall be determined through a parking study conducted by a credible
professional that analyzes the parking needs of each individual use and site.
   (3)   Design Criteria: See Section
10-08-09-1 for specific parking design criteria. (Ord. 3667, 4-21-2025)
10-08-08-7 OUTDOOR STORAGE:
   Outdoor storage is prohibited within the downtown districts, unless it is
incorporated into the overall design of buildings so that the visual and
acoustic impacts of these functions are fully enclosed, contained and out of
view from adjacent properties and public streets. (Ord. 3667, 4-21-2025)
10-08-08-8 SIGNS:
   (1)   General Provisions:
      A.   Except for temporary signs, all signs shall be constructed of
permanent materials and shall be permanently attached to the ground, a
building, or another structure by direct attachment to a rigid wall, frame, or
structure.
      B.   All signs shall be designed and installed by a professional (e.g.,
architect, building designer, landscape architect, interior designer, or others
whose principal business is the design, manufacture, or sale of signs) or
others capable of producing professional results.
      C.   Permanent signs shall be constructed by persons whose principal
business is building construction or a related trade including sign
manufacturing and installation, or others capable of producing professional
results. The intent is to ensure public safety and to achieve signs with
careful construction, neat and readable copy, and durability, to reduce
maintenance costs and prevent dilapidation.
      D.   All signs shall be constructed of permanent materials and shall be
permanently attached by direct attachment to a rigid wall, frame, or structure.
      E.   Design review and sign permits are required for all signs installed
in the downtown districts.
      F.   Signage shall not interfere with vehicular or pedestrian traffic and
shall not be more than three feet (3') high if located within the vision
triangle area. Any signage that presents a safety hazard to vehicular or
pedestrian traffic or located within the vision triangle area if more than
three feet (3') in height may be removed and disposed of by city staff.
      G.   No signage, except temporary signs as outlined herein, shall be
placed in any public right of way except signage placed on a projected awning
or the like that extends into the public right of way or projected wall signage
that extends into the public right of way.
      H.   The city of Caldwell may provide permanent signage within the
downtown districts for the following purposes: highlighting landmarks and entry
points to downtown or specific districts; highlighting the history of downtown
Caldwell; providing maps and geographical information; on central locations,
listing businesses within the downtown zoning districts; providing a designated
place for posting fliers, posters for upcoming events, and public notices;
providing one electronic reader board in the downtown city center district to
be owned and maintained by the city to advertise special events as well as
businesses located within downtown who would pay for such advertising. Such
permanent signage shall be reflective of the types and styles contained within
the page titled “Sidewalk Signage” contained with the “City Center Zoning
District Design Guideline Pictures”, shall be placed on city property or
property owned by the Caldwell east urban renewal agency, shall have to receive
approval from city council through a public hearing prior to placement, and
shall be owned, operated and maintained by and through the city of Caldwell.
Individuals, groups, businesses, entities, services, etc., are prohibited from
placing any signs on property not owned by them, except as may be posted by the
city of Caldwell under the above guidelines.
      I.   Colors, Materials and Structures:
         1.   Colors: Colors on signs and structural members shall be
harmonious with one another and relate to the dominant colors of the buildings
on the site. Contrasting colors may be utilized if the overall effect of the
sign is still compatible with building colors.
         2.   Materials: Sign materials (including framing and supports) shall
be representative of the type and scale of materials used on the site where the
sign is located.
            (A)   Reflective Material Prohibited: Signs shall not be made of
any reflective material.
            (B)   Permanent Signs: Materials for permanent signs shall be
durable and capable of withstanding weathering over the life of the sign with
reasonable maintenance.
         3.   Size Of Structural Members: The size of the structural members
(e.g., columns, crossbeams, and braces) should be proportional to the sign
panel they are supporting.
         4.   Use Of Individual Letters Encouraged: The use of individual
letters incorporated into the building design is encouraged, rather than a sign
with background and framing other than the structural wall.
         5.   Sign Maintenance and Repair: All signs, regardless of type, and
all components thereof, including the supports, braces, and anchors, shall be
continually maintained in a state of good appearance, security, safety and
repair throughout their life. Maintenance shall be such that the signage
continues to conform to any conditions imposed by this article, the sign permit
or any applicable special use permits. Nothing in this code shall relieve the
owner or user of any sign or owner of property on which a sign is located from
maintaining the sign in a safe condition, a state of good repair and an
aesthetically pleasing condition.
         6.   Display Of Merchandise: Display of merchandise does not count as
signage and is permitted on site provided all merchandise is not within or over
any public right of way area, or within or over any vision triangle area and
all merchandise is in a clean, neat, safe, operable condition.
      F.   Sign Lighting:
         1.   External or internal light sources shall be directed and shielded
from view so that they do not produce glare or reflection off the site (on to
any adjacent property, or into a street or alley), or on any object other than
the sign. This requirement is not intended to preclude the use of diffused
exposed neon.
         2.   Sign lighting shall not blink, flash, flutter, scroll, or change
light intensity, brightness, or color.
         3.   Colored lights shall not be used at a location or in a manner so
as to be confused or construed as traffic control devices.
         4.   Lighting for signs shall not create a hazardous glare for
pedestrians or motorists either in a public street or on any private premises.
         5.   For energy conservation, light sources shall be hardwired
fluorescent or compact fluorescent lamps, LED, or other lighting technology
that is of equal or greater energy efficiency. Incandescent lamps are
prohibited.
         6.   Sign illumination for externally illuminated signs shall have
lighting fixtures or luminaires that are fully shielded that do not allow light
or glare to shine above the horizontal plane of the top of the sign or onto any
public right of way or adjoining property. (Ord. 3667, 4-21-2025)
10-08-08-8.1 D-CC AND D-CB SIGN SCHEDULE:
   (1)   Freestanding Monument Signs:
      A.   Freestanding signs are prohibited within the downtown city center
(D-CC) zoning district, with the exception of freestanding monument signs
installed by the City of Caldwell or Destination Caldwell. Freestanding signs
installed by the City of Caldwell or Destination Caldwell shall be a maximum of
thirty-two (32) square feet and a maximum height of eight feet (8'). Signs
within Indian Creek Plaza may be larger with the approval of a special use
permit before City Council.
      B.   One (1) freestanding monument sign is permitted per street frontage
within the downtown central business (D-CB) zoning district. Such sign shall
not exceed fifteen feet (15') in height and thirty-two (32) square feet.
      C.   Monument signs shall include a minimum base height of 25 percent
(25%) of the signs total height and include quality materials, such as brick,
stone, and/or stucco, and shall be of colors that emulate the principal
building.
      D.   Landscaping: All permanent freestanding and monument signs shall be
landscaped in accordance with the requirements listed in the landscaping
ordinance. The minimum required landscaped area for each permanent
freestanding/monument sign shall be equal to or exceed the total square footage
area of the face of one side of the sign(s).
   (2)   Electronic Message Center (EMC) or Changeable Copy Signs:
      A.   One (1) electronic message center or changeable copy sign may be
permitted only when it is used in conjunction with, and as a part of, a
permitted freestanding monument sign. The electronic message center or
changeable copy sign portion shall not exceed twenty (20) square feet. Such
signage shall be approved through a special use permit in these districts prior
to installation. A sign permit is required prior to installation.
      B.   One electronic message center or changeable copy sign may be
permitted to be installed on the wall of buildings where an “arts,
entertainment and recreation” land use exists. The square footage is limited to
a maximum of thirty-two (32) square feet, unless a special use permit is
obtained.
         1.   All EMC signs shall have automatic dimming controls, either by
photocell (hardwired) or via software settings, in order to bring the EMC
lighting level at night down to a level acceptable as specified in this
section.
         2.   EMC signs shall have a minimum display time of eight (8) seconds.
The transition time between messages and/or message frames is limited to three
(3) seconds and these transitions may employ fade, dissolve, and/or other
transition effects.
   (3)   Building Signs:
      A.   Building signs include all wall signs, hanging, projecting, blade,
and suspended signs.
         1.   Building signs affixed to a building are permitted on properties
used for commercial, industrial, public, semi-public or institutional purposes.
Multiple signs are permitted, but the total signage area shall not exceed
twenty percent (20%) of the total wall square footage upon which the sign(s) is
placed. The total cumulative of all wall signs, hanging, projecting, blade, and
suspended signs shall count towards the overall maximum square footage of
signs.
            (A)   Wall Signs:
               i.   One (1) sign is allowed per business frontage with
pedestrian entrance.
               ii.   Individual letters shall be a maximum of 36".
               iii.   Wall signs shall be mounted parallel to the building wall
and shall not project out more than eighteen (18) inches from the wall or
structure to which they are attached.
               iv.   Wall signs shall be installed a minimum of two (2) feet
below the parapet or eave.
               v.   Mounting (1-story building): Wall sign shall be mounted
above the 1st floor windows.
               vi.   Mounting (multi-story building): Wall sign shall be
mounted between windows.
            (B)   Hanging, Suspended, Blade, and Projecting Signs:
               i.   One (1) sign allowed per business frontage with pedestrian
entrance.
               ii.   Hanging, suspended and projecting signs that allow the
sign to swing shall not exceed sixteen (16) square feet. No dimension shall be
greater than three (3) feet.
               iii.   Blade signs shall not exceed six (6) square feet in size.
               iv.   Hanging, suspended, and projecting signs shall have a
minimum clearance beneath the sign of twelve (12) feet. Blade signs shall be no
closer than eight (8) feet above sidewalk surface.
               v.   Sign shall be redwood, sandblasted, hand carved or
architecturally designed equivalent.
               vi.   Projecting signs may project out a maximum of thirty-six
(36) inches.
            (C)   Lighting: External illumination by halo and gooseneck
lighting is permitted.
            (D)   Permits: Sign permits are required prior to the installation
of any sign.
   (4)   Awning Signs:
      A.   One (1) awning sign may be permitted per street frontage.
      B.   The awning sign shall be located completely on the awning valance.
      C.   Content may be affixed or applied to the face or side surfaces of an
awning or backlit awning, provided the copy area of any sign copy does not
exceed twenty (20) percent of the overall awning square footage.
      D.   Awnings shall be a minimum of eight feet (8') above sidewalk grade.
      E.   Awning valances shall have an eighteen inches (18") maximum height.
      F.   Lettering shall be a maximum of fifty (50) percent of the valence
height.
      G.   Sign permits are required prior to the installation of any awning
sign.
   (5)   Window Signs:
      A.   Window signs are permitted in windows with street or alley frontage.
Permanent window signs shall not occupy more than fifteen (15) percent of the
window area. The total area covered by temporary or permanent window signs
shall not exceed twenty-five (25) percent of the window area.
   (6)   Temporary Signs:
      A.   Temporary and portable signs within the downtown districts are
prohibited except as noted within this subsection.
         1.   Banners: Banners of any kind are prohibited within the downtown
districts, except one (1) wall banner is allowed per storefront in lieu of a
permanent wall sign, only while the permanent wall sign is being fabricated.
The maximum size of the temporary wall banner is twenty-four (24) square feet
and may only be displayed for a maximum of ninety (90) days.
         2.   Portable A-frame Signs: A business owner in the downtown
districts may display one (1) portable A-frame sign in front of their business.
Such sign may encroach upon the sidewalk so long as a minimum width of five
feet (5') is maintained along all sidewalks and building entrances accessible
to the public. The portable sign can only be displayed during the operating
hours of the business and must be removed during non-business hours. The
portable sign must be maintained in good condition at all times and be
professionally done. The maximum height of the sign shall be three (3) feet and
the maximum size shall be 6 sq. ft. (Ord. 3667, 4-21-2025)
10-08-09 D-CC AND D-CB SITE DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   (1)   Applicability:
      A.   The following standards are applicable to all properties, structures
and buildings located within the Downtown City Center (D-CC) and the Downtown
Central Business (D-CB) zoning districts. This includes all new construction,
additions and any exterior renovations.
      B.   In addition to the requirements of this section, new construction,
additions, or any exterior renovation on all properties within the Indian Creek
Corridor (“within” meaning either completely within or partially within any
portion of the Indian Creek corridor that runs through the downtown zoning
districts) are also subject to provisions set forth in section
10-11-05-1, SO-1: Indian Creek Corridor Overlay Zone of this article.
      C.   In addition to the requirements in this section, new construction,
additions, or alteration of properties within a designated local historic
district contained within the city center zone are also subject to provisions
set forth in section
10-11-04-2: HD-2 Downtown Local Historic District Overlay Zone of this article.
      D.   Any design guidelines or policies adopted by the City Council are
applicable and enforceable within the downtown districts. (Ord. 3667, 4-21-
2025)
10-08-09-1 LOT STANDARDS; VEHICLE ACCESS, PARKING AND SERVICES:
   Each building shall comply with the following requirements for vehicle
access, parking and services:
   (1)   Vehicular Access: Vehicular access shall be provided through an alley,
where available. Where an alley is not present, vehicle access shall be
provided through a driveway that is a maximum of 20 feet wide (unless otherwise
specified by the Caldwell Fire Department), and with 2-foot-wide minimum
planters on each side.
   (2)   Off Street Parking:
      A.   Off street parking may be provided in a garage, subterranean garage,
parking structure, carport, uncovered, or a combination of any of the above.
      B.   Off Street Parking Locations: Off street parking shall be located to
the rear or side of buildings.
      C.   Sizing and surfacing requirements as listed in sections
10-02-05(3)F and (3)G of this chapter shall be met, unless the off-street
parking is a temporary surface parking lot in which the asphalt or concrete
surfacing requirements shall be waived. Also waived for temporary surface
parking lots are all parking lot landscaping requirements. “Temporary”, for
purposes of this requirement, shall be defined as not being in use as a parking
lot for more than one year.
   (3)   Requirements For Surface Parking Lots: The following requirements
apply to permanent surface parking lots. The following requirements shall be
waived for temporary surface parking lots. “Temporary”, for purposes of this
subsection, shall be defined as not being in use as a parking lot for more than
one year. Restricting vehicular and pedestrian access between adjoining parking
lots at the same grade shall be prohibited.
      A.   Surface parking lots shall not exceed fifteen thousand (15,000)
square feet in size unless divided by landscaping and pedestrian walkways.
      B.   Clear, well-lit paths from parking areas to the street and building
entrance shall be provided.
      C.   The perimeter of parking areas shall be landscaped in accordance
with section
10-02-09 of this chapter.
      D.   Sizing and surfacing requirements as listed in subsections
10-02-05(3)F and (3)G of this chapter shall be met.
   (4)   Requirements For Parking Structures:
      A.   Entrances to subterranean or above-ground parking structures shall
be located to the side or rear of the lot.
      B.   Aboveground parking structures shall be architecturally consistent
with exterior architectural elements of the primary structure, including
rooflines, facade design, articulation, modulation and finish materials.
      C.   Sizing and surfacing requirements as listed in subsections
10-02-05(3)F and (3)G of this chapter shall be met.
   (5)   Mechanical, Utilities and Other Service Equipment:
      A.   Service areas, including all utility access, above ground equipment,
and trash containers, shall be located on the alley, where present. On sites
not served by an alley, service areas shall be located at the rear or an
internal location. Service areas shall be set back from the property lines and
screened with a minimum of a six foot (6') high, sight obscuring, solid fence
or wall.
      B.   Outdoor mechanical equipment, including, but not limited to, heaters
and fans, shall not be located within fifty feet (50') of any abutting
residential districts.
      C.   For roof mounted mechanical equipment; mechanical vents protruding
through the roof and similar features shall be painted so as to match the color
of the roof. Exposed metal flashing or trim shall be anodized or painted to
blend with the exterior colors of the building. Roof mounted mechanical
equipment shall be screened from public view from any street abutting the
property by a screen wall enclosure consistent in appearance with the
architectural treatment of the main building or as otherwise specified in the
design requirements for the subdistrict or overlay district.
      D.   Mechanical equipment, solar collectors, satellite dishes and
communication equipment located on top of a building shall be screened to the
height of the equipment. Screening should be of similar materials and form as
the building itself.
   (6)   Trash Enclosures:
      A.   Trash and recycling receptacles, and trash compactors shall be
located on private property and screened with a six foot (6') high solid fence
constructed out of durable materials as found on the related building’s façade,
or as specified within the design requirements for the subdistrict. Solid, site
obscuring fencing shall be utilized as gates for such enclosures. Chain link or
chain link with slats are prohibited. Where trash enclosures cannot be
accommodated on private property to serve the land use, property owners and
business owners will be required to dispose of trash at the downtown trash
compactor locations. (Ord. 3667, 4-21-2025)
10-08-09-2 BUILDINGS, BUILDING FACADES AND FRONTAGE TYPES:
   (1)   Building Façade Materials:
      A.   Primary building facades shall be constructed of high-quality
materials of unpainted brick and stucco. Secondary trim materials containing no
more than twenty percent (20%) of building facade shall be constructed of high-
quality materials of painted brick, stained and sealed wood, metal panel, terra
cotta cladding, and tile.
      B.   Two (2) or more wall materials may be combined on one facade only
with one above the other; lighter materials above those more substantial (e.g.,
wood above stucco or masonry, or stucco above masonry).
   (2)   Building Colors Allowed:
      A.   A variety of natural colors, light colors, and muted neutrals are
allowed. Colors shall be substantially in compliance with the “Plaza Façade
Design Handbook” adopted by the Caldwell city council.
      B.   Prohibited Finishes: The following finishes are strictly prohibited:
finishes that reflect light; finishes that glare; and bright, heavily saturated
and/or reflective shades of primary colors.
   (3)   Materials Not to Be Used for Site Improvement:
      A.   The following materials are strictly prohibited as site improvement
materials anywhere at, on or in the site or on the building or structure:
crushed colored rock/crushed tumbled glass.
   (4)   Building Entrances and Residential Open Space:
      A.   The main entrance to every building or use shall be located within
the facade and accessed directly from the street through an allowed frontage
type as described above.
      B.   The primary building entrance(s) shall be oriented to the street and
clearly defined by the architectural design of the building and the allowed
frontage type.
      C.   ADA Regulations: ADA regulations shall be met in the accessing of
all buildings.
      D.   Residential Open Space: A minimum of thirty-six (36) square feet of
on-site open space shall be provided per dwelling unit.
   (5)   Wall Openings:
      A.   Glazing shall not be reflective (mirrored). Glazing shall be clear
glass with not more than 10 percent daylight reduction (tinting) in accordance
with the City Center Zoning District Design Guidelines.
         1.   Exception: A request to allow for a maximum 35% daylight
reduction in window glazing may be permitted for larger window areas within
office areas to balance energy efficiency with natural light and minimizing
energy consumption.
      B.   Window openings shall have vertical proportions or may be square.
      C.   Window shutters shall be sized to match their openings.
      D.   Windows shall be recessed no less than two inches (2") from the
building facade.
   (6)   Standards For Blank Walls:
      A.   All blank walls within fifty feet (50') of and visible from a street
or the Indian Creek corridor shall be treated in one or more of the following
methods:
         1.   Install a vertical trellis in front of at least fifty percent
(50%) of the wall length with climbing vines or plant materials;
         2.   Provide a landscaped planting bed at least eight feet (8') wide
or raised planter bed at least two feet (2') high and three feet (3') wide in
front of the wall. Plant materials that will obscure or screen at least fifty
percent (50%) of the wall’s surface within three (3) years are to be planted in
the planting bed; or
         3.   Provide artwork (mosaic, mural, sculpture, relief, etc.) over at
least fifty percent (50%) of the blank wall surface.
   (7)   Projecting Elements:
      A.   All building elements that project from the building wall by more
than sixteen inches (16"), including, but not limited to, decks, balconies,
porch roofs, and bays, should be visibly supported by brackets, posts, or beams
that are sized at minimum six inches (6") in nominal width or diameter.
      B.   Bay windows should be made of materials identical to or compatible
with the building’s wall finish and windows.
      C.   Bay windows should not be wider than eight feet (8') and should have
a height that is equal to or greater than its width.
      D.   Bay windows should be a minimum of three feet (3') from any building
corner or other bay. The bay street facing facade should consist of at least
fifty percent (50%) transparent glazing.
   (8)   Standards For Building Facades:
      A.   The transition from public to private, indoor to outdoor shall be
created by an allowed frontage type. Allowed frontage types are as follows:
         1.   Frontage type: Dooryard:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d91e966eb643f10f466c7d7b166e0181c6c38ab7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2441.jpg]
 
            (A)   Elevated gardens or terraces that provide additional buffer
and privacy for residences.
            (B)   Enclosed by low garden walls at or near the property line,
with a stair leading from the sidewalk to the elevated yard.
            (C)   Building facades are set back from the property line since
the low garden walls are at or near the property line.
            (D)   Buildings are accessed directly from the dooryards.
            (E)   Garden walls enclosing the dooryard should not exceed forty-
two inches (42") in height, unless necessary for structural reasons.
            (F)   Garden walls may be constructed of stucco, brick, or stone.
            (G)   A transparent metal railing may be affixed atop a garden wall
if additional height is necessary for safety.
         2.   Frontage type: Light court:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d91e966eb643f10f466c7d7b166e0181c6c38ab7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2443.jpg]
 
            (A)   Created by depressing a portion of the front yard below the
sidewalk grade in order to provide light and access for a residence or business
in the lower level of a building.
            (B)   Facade is set back from the property line to provide
sufficient space for the light court and an exterior stair connecting the
sidewalk and the light court.
            (C)   A railing and/or garden wall at the property line provides
for the necessary safety.
            (D)   Light courts are typically combined with other frontage types
that provide access to upper levels.
            (E)   Light courts shall be a minimum eight feet (8') deep to
provide usable space and should occupy at a minimum of forty percent (40%) of
the facade width.
            (F)   Light courts shall be a maximum of six feet (6') below the
adjacent sidewalk.
            (G)   Garden walls or railings enclosing the light court shall not
exceed forty-two inches (42") in height.
            (H)   Stairs may be parallel with or perpendicular to the sidewalk.
         3.   Frontage type: Forecourt:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d91e966eb643f10f466c7d7b166e0181c6c38ab7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2445.jpg]
 
            (A)   Created by setting back a portion of the building facade,
typically the central portion.
            (B)   Shall provide access to a central lobby of a larger building
or may be combined with other frontage types that provide direct access to the
portions of the facade that are close to the sidewalk. Larger forecourts should
allow for vehicular access.
            (C)   Forecourts shall be landscaped or paved or a combination of
landscaping and paving.
            (D)   Forecourts may be at grade or elevated above the sidewalk a
maximum of twenty-four inches (24").
            (E)   Forecourts shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') in width and
depth. The width of a forecourt shall not exceed one-third (1/3) of the overall
facade width, and the depth shall be equal to or less than the width.
         4.   Frontage type: Stoop:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d91e966eb643f10f466c7d7b166e0181c6c38ab7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2447.jpg]
 
            (A)   Exterior stairs with landings that provide access to
buildings placed close to the property line.
            (B)   Building facades shall be set back just enough to provide
space for the stoop.
            (C)   The exterior stairs of a stoop shall be perpendicular to or
parallel with the sidewalk.
            (D)   The stoop’s landing may be covered or uncovered.
            (E)   Stoops shall be raised above grade, a minimum of eighteen
inches (18") and a maximum of thirty-six inches (36").
            (F)   Stoops shall be a minimum four feet (4') in width and depth.
            (G)   Landscaping on either side of the stoop shall be at grade or
elevated and shall be demarcated by a garden wall that shall not exceed
eighteen inches (18") in height.
         5.   Frontage type: Gallery:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d91e966eb643f10f466c7d7b166e0181c6c38ab7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2449.jpg]
 
            (A)   Galleries shall be created by attaching a colonnade to a
building facade that is aligned with or near the property line and typically
contains ground floor storefronts.
            (B)   Colonnades project over the sidewalk and encroach into the
public right of way.
            (C)   Galleries and arcades may be combined to achieve the desired
look.
            (D)   Galleries shall provide a minimum eight feet (8') clear
between the facade and the inside of the posts or columns.
            (E)   The space between the face of the curb and the outside face
of the posts or columns shall be between twenty-four inches (24") and thirty
inches (30") to provide sufficient room for overhanging bumpers but to
discourage walking along the outside of the gallery.
         6.   Frontage type: Arcade:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d91e966eb643f10f466c7d7b166e0181c6c38ab7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2451.jpg]
 
            (A)   Arcades shall be created by facades that encroach into the
public right of way on upper levels but are built at or near the property line
on the ground floor. Encroachments will require approval by the City
Engineering Department.
            (B)   A colonnade structurally and visually supports the building
mass above the sidewalk.
            (C)   Arcades and galleries may be combined to achieve the desired
look.
            (D)   Arcades shall provide a minimum eight feet (8') clear between
the ground floor facade and the inside of the posts or columns.
            (E)   The space between the face of the curb and the outside face
of the posts or columns shall be between twenty-four inches (24") and thirty
inches (30") to provide sufficient room for overhanging bumpers but to
discourage walking along the outside of the arcade.
         7.   Frontage type: Shopfront and awning:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d91e966eb643f10f466c7d7b166e0181c6c38ab7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2453.jpg]
 
            (A)   Shopfront and awning frontages are created by inserting
storefronts with substantial glazing into the ground floor facade of a
building.
            (B)   The facade shall align with the property line, although
partially recessed storefronts, such as recessed entrances, are also common.
            (C)   The entrance of the building shall be at sidewalk grade and
provide direct access to a nonresidential ground floor use.
            (D)   Shopfront and awning frontage types are conventional for
retail use and not compatible with residential use.
            (E)   Shopfronts shall be a minimum ten feet (10') tall. A solid
base or bulkhead shall be provided with a maximum height of twenty-four inches
(24") above sidewalk grade.
            (F)   A cornice or horizontal band shall be provided to
differentiate the shopfront from upper levels of the building.
            (G)   At a minimum, fifty percent (50%) of the facade area between
two feet (2') and ten feet (10') above the ground floor shall consist of
transparent fenestration.
            (H)   Awnings may encroach into the public right of way and cover
the sidewalk within two feet (2') of the curb.
            (I)   Awnings shall be a minimum seven feet (7') above sidewalk
grade, as measured from the bottom of the valances.
            (J)   Awnings shall not be made out of plastic or vinyl.
   (9)   Standards For Roofs:
      A.   Roof design shall demonstrate two (2) or more of the following: 1)
overhanging eaves; 2) sloped roofs; 3) two (2) or more roof planes; 4) varying
parapet heights; and 5) cornices.
      B.   Buildings with flat roofs shall have projecting cornices to create a
prominent edge.
      C.   All rooftop mechanical equipment shall be screened to the height of
the unit as viewed from the property line.
   (10)   Standards For Building Types, Form, Scale:
      A.   Changes In Pattern: At least two (2) changes in pattern of one or a
combination of the following building components shall be incorporated into the
building design: color, texture and/or materials.
      B.   Wall Surface Relief: Buildings with more than thirty (30) linear
feet of exterior wall without a window or door shall relieve the wall surface
with a change in the wall plane of at least one inch (1"). Buildings with a
façade length exceeding one hundred (100) feet shall have the appearance of
multiple attached buildings.
      C.   Middle Floor: The middle floor of any three-story building shall be
distinctive through a change in materials or color, windows or setback.
      D.   Top Story: The top story of any three-story building shall be
reduced in floor area and building mass by at least twenty-five percent (25%)
from the ground floor area.
      E.   Corner Buildings: Buildings on corner lots shall be designed with
two facades of equal architectural expression. Prominent building features
should occupy the corner.
      F.   Active Uses: Active uses within the building shall be located along
the primary street frontage with transparent windows facing the street. Blank,
windowless primary street facades are prohibited.
   (11)   Style Precedents:
      A.   All new construction or alteration shall incorporate a minimum of
two (2) elements from at least one of the following style precedents:
         1.   Richardsonian Romanesque revival: Characterized by a
straightforward treatment of stone, broad hipped roof planes and a select
distribution of openings. Identifying features include one or more of the
following:
            (A)   Broad hip roof.
            (B)   Short towers, segmental arched entry.
            (C)   Transomed windows arranged in ribbonlike fashion.
            (D)   Round arched entry with return.
            (E)   Rock faced coursed finish.
            (F)   Relieving round arch.
         2.   Revival (Colonial, French and Italian Renaissance Revival):
Buildings show a definite studied formalism. Characteristics include framed
windows and doors supporting pediments. Identifying features include one or
more of the following:
            (A)   Pedimented window heads, quoins.
            (B)   Cornice window head.
            (C)   Multilight window sash.
            (D)   Segmental window heads.
            (E)   Paneled pilasters.
            (F)   Molded windowsills, balustrade above cornice.
         3.   Main Street Revival: Describes a ubiquitous commercial building
style that evolved from colonial era settlements and used throughout America to
the early 1930s. Identifying features include one or more of the following:
            (A)   The extension of the front facade well above the roof plane
to create the illusion of height and mass.
            (B)   A detailed, projected cornice line.
            (C)   Symmetrical window openings.
            (D)   Use of only brick, stone, or horizontal lap wood siding as
finish materials.
            (E)   Veneers.
         4.   Spanish Revival: A combination of early American Southwestern
Spanish styles that include Mission and Monterey. Derived from the western
Mediterranean that was in turn influenced by the invasion and occupation of the
Moors. Identifying features include one or more of the following:
            (A)   Small balconies.
            (B)   Roman or semicircular arcades and fenestrations.
            (C)   Wood casement or tall, double hung windows.
            (D)   Canvas awnings and decorative iron trim.
            (E)   Prodigious use of stucco walls and chimney finishes.
            (F)   Low pitched clay tiled roofs and terra cotta or cast concrete
ornaments.
            (G)   Tile roofs and stucco exteriors are characteristic with half
rounded doors and windows.
            (H)   Towers and columns are often seen as balustrades,
cantilevered balconies and covered porches. (Ord. 3667, 4-21-2025)
10-08-09-3 PEDESTRIAN AMENITIES REQUIRED:
   (1)   For every twenty-five feet (25') of frontage along the front facade,
one of the following types of pedestrian amenities shall be provided:
      A.   Provide pedestrian weather protection such as an awning, arcade,
canopy, marquee, or a recessed opening into the building to create a covered
pedestrian space of at least one hundred (100) square feet; or
      B.   Benches: The types of benches allowed are as specified in
10-08-09-5 (5);
      C.   Waste Receptacles: The type of waste receptacles allowed are as
specified in
10-08-09-5(6);
      D.   Drinking Fountains: Convenient access to clean, attractive, public
drinking fountains shall be provided to allow pedestrians to limit the use of
bottled water and other portable beverages, thus helping to limit litter and
trash volume. Drinking fountains shall be in accordance with
10-08-09-5 (9);
      E.   Public Space: Five (5) square feet of public space for every linear
foot of building facade along the property line adjacent to the street;
      F.   Building Elements That Incorporate Landscaping: A trellis, canopy,
porch, or other building element that incorporates landscaping;
      G.   Building Ornamentation: Building ornamentation such as mosaic tile,
relief sculpture, ornamental wood, or metal trim;
      H.   Artwork Or Murals: Artwork or murals. See Section
10-08-08-8 for standards.
      I.   Water Features;
      J.   Outdoor Dining Areas in accordance with Section 10-08-09-9;
      K.   Bicycle Racks: Bicycle racks shall be conveniently located to
encourage the use of bicycles for transportation and discourage locking of
bikes to lampposts, trees, benches, and other undesirable locations. The
placement of bicycle racks within the public right of way would require
approval of the city.
         1.   Bicycle racks shall be located in highly visible locations.
         2.   Adequate space shall be provided to keep parked bicycles from
interfering with pedestrian movement and safety.
         3.   Bicycle racks shall of the type specified in
10-08-09-5 (8);
      D.   Bicycle Storage Lockers: Bicycle storage lockers;
      L.   Public Restrooms: Public restrooms;
      M.   Bistro Seating: The type of seating allowed shall be consistent with
the “Plaza Facade Design Handbook”. Bistro seating shall be portable and not
mounted into the ground.
      N.   Any other pedestrian amenities provided that in the determination of
the director are equal to or greater in value to the pedestrian environment
than what would be required under the standards in this subsection. (Ord. 3667,
4-21-2025)
10-08-09-4 STANDARDS FOR OUTDOOR LIGHTING:
   (1)   Height: All fixtures over fifteen feet (15') in height shall be fitted
with a full cutoff shield.
   (2)   Floodlights: Floodlight fixtures shall be prohibited downtown with the
exception of within alleys. Floodlight fixtures shall be set to only go on when
triggered by activity on the property (sensor activated) and to go off within
five (5) minutes after activation has ceased.
   (3)   Uplighting: Uplighting shall only be allowed in cases where the
fixture and any light it emits are shielded from the sky by a roof overhang or
similar structural shield.
   (4)   Prohibited Lighting: The installation of any of the following types of
lighting is prohibited:
      A.   Mercury vapor lamp fixture and/or lamp.
      B.   Laser source light or any similar high intensity light when
projected above the horizontal plane.
      C.   Changing colors, strobe or moving lights, or searchlights for
advertising purposes are prohibited in the downtown zoning districts, except
where approved for temporary uses only.
   (3)   Facade lighting:
      A.   Fixtures are required to be on a single timer or on continuously
during the night.
      B.   All lights shall comply with dark sky standards.
      C.   All lights shall be energy efficient and warm white in color.
      D.   Alley facades shall have black metal gooseneck fixtures at a fixed
height of eight feet (8') above finished grade.
   (4)   Street Lighting:
      A.   All streetlights within the downtown zoning districts shall match
the city’s approved manufacturer and model for the downtown zoning district in
accordance with section
10-08-09-5. (Ord. 3667, 4-21-2025)
10-08-09-5 STREETSCAPE DESIGN REQUIREMENTS:
   (1)   Lineal Sidewalks:
      A.   Sidewalks along Cleveland Boulevard and Blaine Street, shall be
twenty (20) feet wide, consisting of eight (8) feet of scored concrete and a
twelve (12) foot wide landscape strip between the sidewalk and the curb. The
landscape strip shall be composed of sod and uniformly spaced and sized planter
beds, spaced a maximum of every fifty (50) lineal feet. Each planter bed shall
contain ornamental grasses, shrubs, perennials (or a combination thereof), and
one (1) tree. In between each planter bed, an additional tree shall be planted.
Plantings shall not be less than eight (8) inches in height at planting and
shall not exceed two feet in height at full maturity. Trees shall comply with
section
10-08-09-6 of this article. See Figure 1: Corridor Sidewalks, within this
subsection.
      B.   All other sidewalks within the downtown shall be twelve (12) foot
wide scored concrete with sixteen (16) inch concrete paver bands running
parallel to the street between the edge of the curb and the edge of the
sidewalk and have sixteen (16) inch concrete paver bands running perpendicular
across the concrete as depicted in Figure 2: Lineal Sidewalk Streetscape,
within this subsection.
Figure 1: Corridor Sidewalks
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d91e966eb643f10f466c7d7b166e0181c6c38ab7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2467.jpg]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d91e966eb643f10f466c7d7b166e0181c6c38ab7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2469.jpg]
Figure 2: Lineal Sidewalk Streetscape
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d91e966eb643f10f466c7d7b166e0181c6c38ab7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2471.jpg]
 
   (2)   Corner Sidewalk Extensions:
      A.   Downtown City Center (D-CC): Corner sidewalk extensions shall be in
accordance with Figure 3: Corner Sidewalk Extension (D-CC Zone), within this
subsection.
         1.   Corner sidewalk extensions within the downtown city center (D-CC)
shall consist of scored concrete and pavers. Concrete pavers shall be:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d91e966eb643f10f466c7d7b166e0181c6c38ab7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2455.jpg]
 
            Type: Basalite Mission Interlocking Concrete Paving Stones
            Color: Mendocino
            Dimensions: 8 inches x 4 inches
         2.   Corners shall include seat wall planting areas, light poles,
bollards, mid corner planters, bike racks, benches and trash receptacles.
         3.   Street trees shall be within tree grates.
      C.   Downtown Central Business (D-CB): Corner sidewalk extensions shall
be in accordance with Figure 4: Corner Sidewalk Extensions (D-CB Zone), within
this subsection.
         1.   Corner sidewalk extensions within the downtown central business
(D-CB) shall consist of scored concrete.
         2.   Corners shall include light poles, bollards with chain, mid
corner planters, benches, trash receptacles, and art or special features.
         3.   Street trees shall be within tree grates.
Figure 3: Corner Sidewalk Extension (D-CC Zone)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d91e966eb643f10f466c7d7b166e0181c6c38ab7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2473.jpg]
Figure 4: Corner Sidewalk Extensions (D-CB Zone)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d91e966eb643f10f466c7d7b166e0181c6c38ab7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2475.jpg]
 
   (3)   Midblock Sidewalk Extensions:
      A.   Midblock shall include sidewalk extensions, where feasible. Each
block shall have one full-depth, or one half-depth midblock sidewalk extension
as illustrated in Figure 5: Midblock Sidewalk Half-Depth Extensions and Figure
6: Midblock Sidewalk Full-Depth Extensions, within this subsection.
Figure 5: Midblock Sidewalk Half-Depth Extension
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d91e966eb643f10f466c7d7b166e0181c6c38ab7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2477.jpg]
Figure 6: Midblock Sidewalk Full-Depth Extensions
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d91e966eb643f10f466c7d7b166e0181c6c38ab7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2479.jpg]
 
   (4)   Crosswalks:
      A.   Crosswalks shall be located at all intersections. Midblock
crosswalks shall be located in conjunction with midblock sidewalk extensions.
      B.   Crosswalks at intersections shall be scored concrete. Crosswalks at
midblock may be painted crosswalks. The use of art as part of the crosswalk is
encouraged.
   (5)   Benches: Benches shall be located at mid-block sidewalk extensions,
corner sidewalk extensions, and on all streets. Benches shall be:
      A.   Wabash Valley Courtyard Series
         Pattern: Rib (R)
         Color - Brown
         8' Bench with Back - Model CY400(R) and CY401(R)
         6' Bench with Back - Model CY420 (R)
         6' Memorial Bench with Back - Model SP410 (R)
         All benches to be secured with surface mount
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d91e966eb643f10f466c7d7b166e0181c6c38ab7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2457.jpg]
 
   (6)   Trash Receptacles:
      A.   Wabash Valley Courtyard Series
         Pattern: Rib (R)
         Color: Brown
         Model LR300 (R)
         All trash receptacles to be secured with surface mount
   (7)   Ash Trays:
      A.   Wabash Valley Courtyard Series
         Pattern: Rib (R)
         Color: Brown
         Model AT100(R)
         All ash trash units to be secured with surface mount
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d91e966eb643f10f466c7d7b166e0181c6c38ab7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2459.jpg]
 
   (8)   Bike Racks: Bike racks shall be conveniently located to encourage use
of bicycles for transportation and discourage locking of bikes to lamp posts,
trees, benches, and other undesirable locations. Bike racks should be located
in highly visible locations. Adequate space must be provided to keep parked
bikes from interfering with pedestrian movement and safety. Bike racks shall be
as follows:
      A.   Wabash Valley 36" Bike Loop
         Inground: Model BL100N
         Surface Mount: Model BL101N
         Color: Brown
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d91e966eb643f10f466c7d7b166e0181c6c38ab7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2461.jpg]
 
   (9)   Drinking Fountains: Drinking fountains are encouraged in high
visibility locations within the Indian Creek Corridor and within public plaza
areas. Drinking fountains shall be as follows:
      A.   Murdock Model M-30, Color Black
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d91e966eb643f10f466c7d7b166e0181c6c38ab7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2463.jpg]
 
   (10)   Street Lighting:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d91e966eb643f10f466c7d7b166e0181c6c38ab7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2465.jpg]
 
      A.   Location: Streetlights shall be placed approximately every sixty
(60) lineal feet, and at corners in accordance with Figures 1 - 6 within this
subsection.
      B.   Streetlight Posts shall be as follows:
         1.    Post shall be all aluminum, tapered and fluted with a cast
aluminum base and 5-inch diameter fluted shaft with 3-inch tenon for fixture
mounting.
         2.   The post shall be furnished with a “verde green” powder coat
finish.
         3.   A door shall be located in the base for anchorage and wiring
access.
         4.   A GFI receptacle w/cover shall be located near the post top.
         5.   The base shall be 19-inch diameter.
         6.   Pole shall be Mariner Series Pole No. ME 14F5 / 19-CA-RS/GFI/WPC
by Antique Street Lamps, Inc. or approved equal. 2" x 4" hand hold assembly.
         7.   All streetlights shall include a planter arm for one hanging
basket and one banner arm.
         8.   The planter arm shall be located on the side of the post that
faces the sidewalk.
         9.   The banner arm shall be located on the opposite side of the post
facing the street.
      C.   Streetlight Fixtures shall be:
         1.   MAM30 / CS-M175/Q.V.-PEC2-F2 by Antique Street Lamps, Inc. or
approved equal.
         2.   The fixtures of all streetlights shall be furnished with a “verde
green” powder coat finish.
         3.   Streetlights shall have a matching reflective shield installed at
the top of the streetlight in an appropriate location so as to provide downward
facing lighting
      D.   Hardware:
         1.   All hardware shall be stainless steel.
         2.   All exterior hardware shall be tamper resistant.
   (11)   Bollards: Bollards shall be used to separate pedestrian areas from
vehicular areas and to provide decorative accents. Additional bollards may be
used to protect trees or other streetscape features from damage caused by
vehicles.
      A.   Placement: Where curb cuts exceed six (6) feet in width, at midblock
sidewalk extensions, and at corner sidewalk extensions, a security / anti-ram
bollard installation shall be required. Where pedestrian streets intersect with
vehicular streets, removable bollards shall be used to allow for emergency
vehicle and maintenance access. See Figure 7: Bollard Specifications.
Figure 7: Bollard Specifications
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d91e966eb643f10f466c7d7b166e0181c6c38ab7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2481.jpg]
 
(Ord. 3667, 4-21-2025)
10-08-09-6 STANDARDS FOR LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING:
   (1)   Applicability: Properties within the downtown city center and downtown
central business sub-districts shall comply with all landscaping requirements
within Section
10-02-09 of this chapter, with the exception of provisions for common area,
street landscape buffers, and landscaping in stormwater areas, unless otherwise
noted herein. Buffers between land uses shall only apply to uses between the
downtown districts and another zoning district, not between uses within the
downtown zoning districts itself.
   (2)   Hanging Planters:
      A.   City Planters: City provided and maintained hanging baskets may be
hung on street light poles in accordance with the following:
         1.   Hung on streetlight posts a minimum of ten feet (10') from the
ground or mounted on building facades or railings.
         2.   Shall be in a wire basket a minimum of twelve inches (12") in
diameter.
         3.   Shall be completely covered with flowers, hanging flowers,
hanging vines, or the like, such that no part of the wire basket shall show.
      B.   Privately Owned Planters: Privately owned and maintained hanging
baskets may be mounted on building facades.
   (3)   Planter Pots / Boxes: Planter pots and boxes shall be provided as
landscaping to define smaller spaces, break up long expanses of building
facades, or provide separation between pedestrian areas and the street. All
planter pots/ boxes shall comply with the following:
      A.   Shall be movable.
      B.   Privately owned planter pots / boxes shall be located directly
adjacent to building facades or entries and shall extend no further than four
feet (4') from the building facade.
      C.   Privately owned planter pots/boxes shall not impede pedestrian
traffic, pose a safety hazard or interfere with vision triangle standards as
set forth in section 10-07-07 of this chapter.
      D.   Shall be the following style: Wausau Tile colonial series concrete
planters in gray, brown, black or sand, or a similar style. Colonial series
planters are available in a variety of sizes. Sizes shall be selected based on
specific location.
      E.   Plantings in planter pots shall consist of flowers and mulch or
bark. Shrubs and grasses may be planted in planter pots, but the maximum height
shall be no more than three feet (3') at maturity.
      F.   The entire surface area of the planter shall be covered with
flowers, mulch, bark, shrubs or grasses.
      G.   Planter pot colors shall be consistent with the color of the
building.
   (4)   Tree Grates:
      A.   All street trees shall be protected by tree grates.
      B.   Tree grates shall be four feet by four feet (4' x 4') square and
shall comply with ADA guidelines.
      C.   Slots shall be a maximum of three-eighths inch (3/8") wide and holes
shall be a maximum of three-eighths inch (3/8") square.
      D.   Grates shall be designed to allow for the tree opening to be
enlarged in increments to accommodate tree growth, protecting the tree from
injury.
      E.   Tree grates shall be unfinished cast gray iron. The natural iron
will develop an attractive rust patina that is maintenance free.
   (4)   Tree Selection Guidelines:
      A.   Trees shall be selected for ease of maintenance and resistance to
drought and disease.
      B.   Trees shall be columnar in nature so as to discourage and inhibit
bird nesting.
      C.   Trees shall be selected that generally grow to a maximum height of
twenty-five feet (25').
      D.   Recommended species are as follows:
Common Name Scientific Name
Common Name                    Scientific Name
Armstrong Maple                Acer x freemanii ‘Armstrong’
Columnar Norway Maple          Acer platanoides ‘Columnar’
Parkway Maple                  Acer platanoides ‘Columnarbroad’
Crimson Sentry Maple           Acer platanoides ‘Crimson Sentry’
Magnifica Hackberry            Celtis ‘Magnifica’
Cimmaron Ash                   Fraxinus pennsylvanica ‘Cimmzam’
Princeton Sentry Ginkgo Tree   Ginkgo biloba ‘Princeton Sentry’
Saratoga Ginkgo Tree           Ginkgo biloba ‘Saratoga’
Skyline Honeylocust            Gleditsia triacanthos ‘Skycole’
Columnar Tulip Tree            Liriodendron tulipifera ‘Fastigiatum’
Rotundiloba Sweetgum           Liquidambar styraciflua ‘Rotundiloba’
Slender Silhouette Sweetgum    Liquidambar styraciflua ‘Slender Silhouette’
Macho Cork Tree                Phellodendron amurense ‘Macho’
Japanese Pagodatree            Sophora japonica
Ivory Silk Japanese Tree Lilac Syringa reticulata ‘Ivory Silk’
Boulevard Linden               Tilia americaqna ‘Boulevard’
Sentry American Linden         Tilia americana ‘Sentry’
 
(Ord. 3667, 4-21-2025)
10-08-09-7 STANDARDS FOR MURALS:
   (1)   The content of the mural shall consistent with the architectural,
geographical, sociocultural and historical context of the downtown district it
is within.
   (2)   The mural may be located on the front, rear, side or alley side of the
building, as approved by the Public Art Management Team (PAMT).
   (3)   The size of the mural is limited to two hundred (200) square feet or
will be based on the size of the structure, as approved by the Public Art
Management Team (PAMT).
   (4)   The surface material is resistant to vandalism and weather.
   (5)   The mural cannot include advertising, but it may include the business
name as long as it shall not dominate the design of the mural.
   (6)   All murals shall be reviewed and approved by the Public Art Management
Team (PAMT). (Ord. 3667, 4-21-2025)
10-08-09-8 STANDARDS FOR OUTDOOR DINING:
   (1)   Purpose And Intent: The purpose of this section is to establish
regulations to allow limited dining to encroach into the public right-of-way as
an ancillary component of an adjacent primary business, which is located on
private property. It is intended that such outdoor dining will not unduly
restrict public access or utilize a design that detracts from the image and
appearance of the surrounding area.
   (2)   Definitions:
      A.   “Outdoor Dining” is defined as the use of an adjacent, outside area
by a food or beverage establishment for the same eating and/or drinking
activities that occur within the establishment. The outdoor dining area may be
located in a public right-of-way pursuant to this chapter.
      B.   “Chair” shall mean either a distinct piece of furniture designed to
allow one person to sit upon the same, or when seating is provided on a bench
or other similar structure, then every twenty inches (20") of seating space
shall be considered as the equivalent of one chair for determining seating
capacity.
      C.   “Table” shall mean a piece of furniture consisting of a smooth flat
slab fixed on legs.
   (3)   Outdoor Dining: Outdoor dining shall be permitted to encroach into the
public right-of-way pursuant to this chapter in the following areas:
      A.   The Downtown City Center (D-CC) district with the submission and
approval of an outdoor dining permit.
      B.   The Downtown Central Business (D-CB) district with the submission
and approval of an outdoor dining permit. Locations within the D-CB zone will
be reviewed and approved on a case-by-case basis and at the discretion of the
director.
      C.   Outdoor dining in the public right-of-way shall not extend beyond
the boundaries of the primary business property to which such activity is
subordinate.
   (4)   Location:
      A.   Outdoor dining may occur at other locations in addition to public
sidewalks, as designated by the Caldwell City Council.
      B.   The City of Caldwell may lease city owned properties for outdoor
seating with a lease agreement approved by the Caldwell City Council.
      C.   Outdoor dining, when approved to extend into the public right-of-
way, shall provide and maintain a clear pedestrian pathway the full width of
the property. The pathway shall maintain a minimum unobstructed passageway of
three feet (3') as measured from the dining area to any obstruction including
but not limited to light standards, benches, street trees and news racks.
      D.   Accessibility Standards: Accessibility of forty-eight inches (48")
is preferred, but the minimum thirty-six inches (36") continuous clear width of
accessible routes can be reduced to thirty-two inches (32") at points (as shown
on the diagram below), such as streetlight, signage, street trees and tree
grates.
Figure 8: Clear Width of Accessible Route
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d91e966eb643f10f466c7d7b166e0181c6c38ab7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2485.jpg]
   (5)   Insurance: The permittee shall maintain general liability insurance
for the benefit of the city of a type and amount as determined appropriate by
the city attorney.
   (6)   General Standards For Outside Dining:
      A.   Placement of tables and chairs can be placed on public sidewalks or
other areas as determined by the Director that do not violate any other
provisions of this section.
      B.   Outdoor dining areas that have more than four (4) tables or more
than eight (8) chairs in the dining area should be separated from the walkway
with fencing, swag roping, decorative plants, landscape planters, or other
architectural barriers that prevent encroachment of tables and chairs into the
three-foot (3') pathway being maintained for pedestrian access. Outdoor dining
areas that have more than eight (8) tables or more than sixteen (16) chairs
must provide stationery fencing between the dining area and the walkway.
Materials and design must be approved by the Director. The Director may relax
this standard when it is clear that there is no reasonable possibility of
tables or chairs being moved to encroach on the required pedestrian pathway.
      C.   Lighting will be required for outdoor dining areas, during the
evening hours. The lighting fixtures must be decorative and complement the
architectural character of the building and area. Lights mounted on the
building shall not cause direct glare or other visual obstruction to
pedestrians or vehicle drivers along the street and public walkway and should
illuminate only the sidewalk area.
      D.   Portable umbrella canopies should be between seven feet (7') and ten
feet (10') in height. A clear pedestrian passageway of five (5) feet should be
maintained. Umbrellas shall not extend past the sidewalk seating barrier and
shall contain advertising or messages. Colors shall complement the color
palette identified in the Plaza Facade Design Handbook.
      E.   If portable heaters are utilized, they must comply with the
International Fire Code for portable outdoor gas-fired heating appliances with
the following guidelines:
         1.   Prohibited Locations: Inside of any occupancy where connected to
the fuel gas container, inside tents, canopies and membrane structures, on
exterior balconies, indoors;
         2.   Clearance To Buildings: Shall not be located, not less than five
feet (5') from building.
         3.   Clearance To Combustible Materials: Shall not be located beneath
or closer than five feet (5') to combustible or similar combustible attachments
to buildings.
         4.   Clearance to Exits: Shall not be located within five feet (5') of
exit or exit discharges.
         5.   Listed And Approved: Only listed and approved portable outdoor
gas-fired heating appliances utilizing a fuel gas container that is integral to
the appliance shall be used.
         6.   Installation And Maintenance: Shall be installed and maintained
in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions.
         7.   Tip Over Switch: Shall be equipped with a tilt or tip-over switch
that automatically shuts off the flow of gas if the appliance is tipped more
than fifteen degrees (15°).
         8.   Guard Against Contact: The heating element or combustion chamber
shall be permanently guarded so as to prevent accidental contact by persons or
material.
      F.   If outdoor speakers are utilized, the sound must comply with the
city of Caldwell’s noise ordinance,
Chapter 7, Article 13 of this code, (Public Noise Disturbance).
      G.   While the City realizes that each type of outdoor dining fulfills a
different purpose, it is still necessary to establish standards that are to be
maintained by all participating establishments to ensure the continued quality
of the Caldwell outdoor dining experience. The following are specific standards
related to the material and design of furniture, pedestrian barriers and
landscaping.
   (7)    Outdoor Dining Materials Standards.
      A.   Facilities and equipment shall be of a quality and style that is
consistent with the downtown design guidelines adopted by the City of Caldwell
and any other applicable design standards and policies.
      B.   Iron, Cast: Low carbon iron, hand or machine cast parts, stainless
steel connectors, and hand ground to smooth finish.
      C.   Iron, Wrought: Heavy Gauge: Low carbon, MIG welded and hand ground
to smooth finish.
      D.   Steel, Expanded: Frame - minimum of thirteen (13) gauge cold rolled
steel, low carbon, MIG welded and finish with hard, abrasive resistant liquid
paint.
      E.   Steel, Wire: 13/14 gauge cold rolled MIG welded, smooth ground
joints, and abrasive resistant finish.
      F.   Aluminum, Cast: Solid aluminum bars, not hollow tubes, and all heli-
arc welded connections.
      G.   Aluminum, Extruded: Anodized extruded aluminum, heli-arc welded
connections.
      H.   Wood: Frame - minimum three inch by three inch (3"x3") nominal frame
member slats- minimum %” x 3" nominal slat - size joints shall be doweled and
glued. No screw or bolts connections.
      I.   Or other design as approved by the Planning and Zoning Director.
      J.   No resin furniture will be permitted.
   (8)    Operational Standards:
      A.   The owner of the primary business is responsible for proper
operation of the outdoor dining area. Outdoor dining shall be continuously
supervised by management or employees.
      B.   Establishments are required to maintain all areas in and around the
sidewalk dining area in a manner which is clean and free of litter and debris.
      C.   The outdoor dining hours of operation shall be limited to the hours
of operation of the associated food or beverage establishment.
      D.   All plans and permits for the outdoor dining area approved by the
city must be kept on the premises for public inspection at all times, during
which the associated establishment is open for business.
      E.   Outdoor dining areas shall be operated in a manner that meets all
requirements of Southwest District Health and all other applicable regulations,
laws, ordinances and standards. Food establishments serving alcoholic beverages
shall also obtain all necessary permits required by the Idaho State Liquor
Commission.
   (9)   Review Process:
      A.   Review Authority: The Director shall have administrative authority
to review and approve outdoor dining permits. The Director may impose
reasonable conditions to assure that the dining or display area is not
detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare and is consistent with
applicable redevelopment plans and design guidelines.
      B.   Conditions Of Approval: The Director, as applicable, may impose
reasonable conditions of approval to ensure that outdoor dining areas operate
in a manner that is not detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare,
is consistent with all applicable codes, policies and guidelines, and enhances
the image, appearance and vitality of the area in which the use is located.
This includes but is not limited to authority to regulate the design, layout,
materials, colors, quality and appearance of outside dining areas; to require
security deposits, insurance and other reasonable financial guarantees and to
prescribe operating terms which the permittee must follow.
      C.   Appeal:
         1.   The decision of the Planning and Zoning Director may be appealed
and shall require a majority vote of the Planning and Zoning Commission at a
regular meeting to which the permittee has been given at least fifteen (15)
calendar days’ notice. The decision of the Planning and Zoning Commission may
be appealed to the City Council.
         2.   The above decisions must be appealed in writing to the City
Clerk’s office within fifteen (15) days after the decision is made.
      D.   Fees: When filing an application for an outdoor dining or any
related appeals, a non-refundable fee shall be paid for the purposes of
defraying the costs incidental to the proceedings. The fees shall be determined
by the City Council and adopted by resolution, which may be amended from time
to time.
      E.   Encroachment Permit: An encroachment permit must be obtained from
the city before any dining area is permitted.
      F.   Terms And Renewal: An outdoor dining area may be approved for a
maximum of two (2) years. Renewal permits may be granted for two (2) year
periods. The City of Caldwell reserves the right to temporarily suspend the
permit upon seven (7) days’ notice because of anticipated or actual conflicts
in the use of sidewalk areas due to street repairs, parades, festivals and
other similar events.
      G.   Exception: The area listed within the map below, known as Indian
Creek Plaza, is exempt from section 10-08-09-9.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d91e966eb643f10f466c7d7b166e0181c6c38ab7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2483.jpg]
 
      H.   Enforcement:
         1.   Penalties: Any violation of this chapter shall be punishable as a
misdemeanor pursuant to city code. In addition, the city may seek civil
remedies for any violation including but not limited to the recovery of
reasonable costs for the enforcement and correction of the violation.
         2.   Revocation: Violation of any of the standards in this code or any
of the conditions imposed under this section shall be grounds for revocation of
the outdoor dining permit. Such approval shall require a majority vote of the
Planning and Zoning Commission at a regular meeting to which the permittee has
been given at least ten (10) calendar days’ notice. The decision of the
Planning and Zoning Commission decision may be appealed to the City Council.
(Ord. 3667, 4-21-2025)
ARTICLE 9: SPECIAL PURPOSE ZONING DISTRICTS
Section
   
10-09-01   General Regulations
   
10-09-02   Districts
   
10-09-03   Uses
   
10-09-04   Bulk and Dimensional Standards
   
10-09-05   Density Allowances
   
10-09-06   Development Options
10-09-01 GENERAL REGULATIONS:
   (1)   Applicability: The zoning district regulations and standards
established in this section shall apply to all special purpose zoning districts
established in this section, unless specifically stated otherwise in a specific
article in this chapter. (Ord. 3668, 4-21-2025)
10-09-02 DISTRICTS:
   (1)   Intent: Caldwell’s special purpose zoning districts are primarily
intended to accommodate public, quasi-public and institutional uses such as
colleges, universities, vocational educational facilities, healthcare
institutions, government facilities, airports, and similar uses, and allow for
their expansion in a planned manner while protecting the surrounding
neighborhoods. The districts are meant to be flexible to allow for supporting
uses and ancillary uses that serve the principal uses.
   (2)   District Map Symbol / Names: The city’s special purpose zoning
districts are listed below. Changes have been made to the H-D district name,
which has no impact on a property owners current land use entitlements or
property rights.
      When this zoning and development code refers to “institutional and public
districts”, “airport district”, “college district”, “hospital/healthcare
district” or “public district”, or to “A-D”, “C-D”, “H-D” or “P-D” districts,
it is referring to these districts.
 
Zoning Map Symbol Old District Name New District Name
A-D               Airport District  Airport District
C-D               College District  College District
H-D               Hospital District Healthcare District
P-D               Public District   Public District
 
   (3)   District Purpose Statements:
      A.   A-D ZONE: The purpose of this zone is to provide areas by zoning
procedures in accordance with the comprehensive plan that creates an
environment for developing the facilities necessary or desirable for the safe,
efficient, convenient and economical operation of the Caldwell Executive
Airport or any other similar airport. The zone accommodates non-noise sensitive
manufacturing, industrial and commercial uses that provide support for airport
operations and services to airport users, while protecting the public interest
and investment.
      B.   C-D ZONE: The purpose of this zone is to provide areas by zoning
procedures in accordance with the comprehensive plan that create, preserve and
enhance areas adjacent to college education facilities by allowing for
residential, commercial, industrial, and related establishments that compliment
and support the college facilities. Uses are to be restricted to those
primarily required by educational users and providers including, but not
limited to teaching, housing, research, libraries, athletic recreation and
competitions, public gathering facilities, performing arts, general shopping
and retail, healthcare, research activities, and complementary uses appropriate
to the zone.
      C.   H-D ZONE: The purpose of this zone is to provide areas by zoning
procedure in accordance with the comprehensive plan that provide health,
medical, and related services at major medical institutions in the city and in
the immediate area surrounding such institutions. Hospital and healthcare
campuses are primary users within this zone with medical and healthcare
supportive land uses as ancillary uses.
      D.   P-D ZONE: The purpose of this zone is to provide areas by zoning
procedure in accordance with the comprehensive plan that accommodates public
and quasi-public land uses. The intent of this zoning category is to allow for
necessary civic uses in the community, such as public schools, post offices,
public (federal, state, city and county) buildings, parks and recreation
facilities, public open space, public utility yards and similar uses. (Ord.
3668, 4-21-2025)
10-09-03 USES:
   (1)   Purpose: This section sets forth the permitted and specially permitted
uses Caldwell’s special purpose zoning districts. For Overlay Zoning Districts,
see
Chapter 10, Article 11.
   (2)   Explanation and Key to Land Use Table Abbreviations:
      A.   Permitted Uses (P): A “P” in a cell indicates that a use is allowed
by right in the respective zoning district. Permitted uses are subject to all
other applicable regulations of this zoning ordinance.
      B.   Administrative Development Review (ADR): An “ADR” in a cell
indicates the use is allowed by right but requires the submission of an
Administrative Review application and the issuance of a Certificate of Zoning
Compliance prior to submission of building permits and the commencement of any
construction. In addition, all land uses allowed by right in which a building
permit is not required will require the submission of an Administrative
Development Review (ADR) application to allow for the review of the land use,
site plan, parking, landscaping and compliance with all other applicable city
code regulations and laws.
      C.   Special Use Permit (SUP). A “SUP” in a cell indicates that the use
is allowed in the respective zoning district only if reviewed and approved as a
special use, by the commission or hearing examiner in accordance with the
special use permit procedures of this chapter. A “SUP/C” in a cell indicates
that the use is allowed in the respective zoning district only after it has
been reviewed and approved by City Council.
         1.   Special uses are subject to all other applicable regulations of
this chapter.
         2.   The “SUP” or “SUP/C” designation in a given district does not
constitute an authorization or assurance that such use will be permitted.
Rather, each special use permit application shall be evaluated as to its
probable effect on adjacent properties and surrounding areas, among other
factors, and may be approved, approved with conditions, or denied pursuant to
the procedures in Section
10-03-04, Special Use Permits.
      D.   Uses Accessory to the Principal Use (A). An “A” in a cell indicates
the land use is permitted only as an accessory land use to an approved
principal use only.
      E.   Temporary Use Only (TUP). A “TUP” in any cell indicates that the use
is only permitted as a temporary use only. Temporary use permits may be
required in accordance with Section
10-12-03-34.
      F.   Specific Use Provisions (*). A “*” in any cell indicates that
regardless of whether a use is allowed by right, or as a special use, temporary
use, or accessory use, additional standards may be applicable to the use. Refer
to
Chapter 10, Article 12 of this chapter for Specific Use Provisions.
      G.   Uses Not Allowed. An empty cell indicates that the use is not
allowed in the respective zoning district.
   (3)   Classification of New and Unlisted Uses:
      A.   If a proposed use of property is not specifically listed in this
table, the use shall be prohibited unless the Director, upon the request of an
applicant, determines that a proposed use not listed in this table, is
equivalent to a listed permitted or special use. In making the decision, the
Director shall consider the following:
         1.   The impacts on public services and activities associated with the
proposed use are substantially similar to those of 1 or more of the uses listed
in the applicable base districts as allowed;
         2.   The proposed use shall not involve a higher level of activity or
density than 1 or more of the uses listed in the applicable base districts as
allowed;
         3.   The proposed use is consistent with the purpose of the district
in which the use is proposed to be located; and
         4.   The proposed use is in substantial conformance with the goals and
objectives of the Comprehensive Plan.
         5.   The Director may also use past precedent, case law, and legal
opinion in making the determination.
         6.   When considering a use that is not listed in the use table, the
Director shall also determine whether additional use-specific standards are
necessary.
      B.   If the Director denies an application for such a requested use, the
applicant shall have the right, within the period of ten (10) days from the
date of such disapproval, to appeal the Director’s decision to the City
Council. The decision of the City Council shall be final.
   (4)   Mix of Uses/Buildings:
      A.   More than one classification of uses and more than one use within
these use classifications shall be permitted on a lot or parcel in the special
purpose districts without a planned unit development application approval, if
the proposed individual uses are permitted uses or special uses, unless
otherwise specified within the specific use provisions for a mixed-use
development.
      B.    More than one principal structure or building, without having a
planned unit development, are allowed upon a single development site, with the
exception of a site utilized for or containing single family residential.
      C.   In the case of a proposed special use, such application should
proceed through the standard procedures of a special use permit application.
      D.   Residential uses are prohibited along the frontage of all arterial
roadways and highways within the Mixed-Use or Community Center place types, as
designated on the Future Land Use Map, unless part of a Mixed-Use Small-Scale
or Mixed-Use Large-Scale building in compliance with section
10-12-03-25.
   (5)   Land Use Schedule:
TABLE 10-09-03:
LAND USE TABLE - SPECIAL PURPOSE DISTRICTS 6,17
P                                     Permitted
A                                     Permitted as an Accessory Use to a Legal
                                      Primary Use
ADR                                   Requires Administrative Site/Development
                                      Review
SUP                                   Requires a Special Use Permit
SUP/C                                 Requires a Special Use Permit at City
                                      Council Level
TUP                                   Permitted as a Temporary Use with a
                                      Temporary Use Permit
Blank Cell                            Not Permitted
*                                     Land Use is subject to Special Use
                                      Provisions
Land Uses                             A-D C-D   H-D   P-D10
Accessory Buildings and Uses *        P   P     P     P
Adult Business*
Agriculture, General                  P               P
Aircraft Repair and Service           P
Airplane / Helicopter Hanger          P
Airport / Airport Terminal            P
Ambulance Service                     P   SUP   P     P
Amusement Centers                         SUP   SUP   SUP
Animal Shelter                            SUP   SUP
Artist Studio / Gallery *                 SUP   SUP
Arts, Entertainment and Recreation        P     SUP
Facilities (Indoor) *
Arts, Entertainment and Recreation        SUP8  SUP8  SUP8
Facilities (Outdoor) *
Auction House
Automotive - Body Shop
Automotive - Car Wash *               P
Automotive - Gas / Service Station    P
(standalone) *
Automotive - Rental Lot               P
Automotive - Repair Services *
Automotive - Storage (Indoor Only)    SUP
Automotive - Storage (Outdoor)        SUP
Automotive - Tow Yard
Bail Bond Use
Brewery - Large Scale *
Brewery - Small Scale *                   P     P
Cemetery                                              P
Church/Places of Religious Worship *  SUP P     P
Clinic/Hospital - Large Animal
Clinic/Hospital - Small Animal            P     P
Club/Lodge                                P
Commercial Dairy
Commercial Kennel
Community Center (private)                SUP   SUP   P
Community Center (public)                 P     P     P
Community Garden                          P     P     P
                                      Any permitted project may go through the
Condominiums                          condo plat process. See Definition of
                                      Condominium in Section
                                      10-01-10
Conference / Convention Center            SUP         P
Contractor’s Shop with Storage Yard SUP             SUP
Correctional / Detention Facility                     SUP
Cottage Industries *
Crematorium
Dance Hall / Night Club                   SUP   SUP
Daycare/Preschool - In- Home -            P     P     P
Family/Group (12 or <) *
Daycare/Preschool - Center (13 or >)      P     P     P
*
Distillery - Large Scale *
Distillery - Small Scale *                SUP   SUP
Donation Containers or Storage Pods*  A   A     A     A
Dormitory                                 P     P
Drinking Establishments - Liquor*         SUP   SUP
Dwelling - Accessory Dwelling Unit        P1    P1    P1
(ADU) *
Dwelling - Caretaker                      ADR   ADR   ADR
Dwelling - Group Home / Residence         P     P     P
(8 or < residents)
Dwelling - Group Home/Residence           SUP   SUP   P
(9 or > residents)
Dwelling - Live / Work                    P     P     P
Dwelling - Cottage Courts / Housing       P     P     P
Dwelling - Single Family; Detached        P     P     P
Dwelling - Single Family; Townhouse       P     P     P
(3 or < attached)
Dwelling - Single Family; Townhouse       P     P     P
(4 or > attached)
Dwelling - Single Family;                 P     P     P
Manufactured Home
Dwelling - Single Family; Mobile
Home*
Dwelling - Two-Family (Duplex)            P     P     P
Dwelling - Multifamily (Triplex)          P     P     P
Dwelling - Multifamily (Fourplex)         P     P     P
Dwelling - Multi Family Apartments        SUP   SUP   P
(Small Scale)
Dwelling - Multi Family Apartments        SUP16       SUP/C
(Large Scale)
Dwelling - Transitional Home                    SUP   SUP
Elevated Pedestrian Walkways *        ADR ADR   ADR   ADR
Equipment Repair & Service - Large *  SUP
Equipment Repair & Service - Small *  SUP SUP   SUP
Equipment Repair & Service -          SUP SUP   SUP
Household *
Event Center *                            SUP   SUP   P
Farmstand - Off-Site                      SUP   SUP
Farmstand - On-Site                   P   P     P
Farmer’s Market                         P     P     P
Financial Institution                 P   P     SUP
Financial Institution (with drive-    SUP P     SUP
through) *
Fitness Facility - Large                  SUP   SUP
Fitness Facility - Small                  P     P
Flea Market
Flex Space *                          P         SUP
Food Bank / Soup Kitchen                  P     P     P
Food Stand                                P     P
Fraternity / Sorority House               P
Frozen Food Locker Facility           P
Funeral Home                              SUP   P
Greenhouse - Commercial                   SUP15 SUP   P
Helipad                               P   SUP   P     SUP
Hospital                                  SUP   P     SUP
Industry - Craftsman / Artisan        P   SUP
Industry - Fireworks
Industry - Light Industrial           P
Industry - Medium Industrial          P
Industry - Heavy Industrial*
Industry - Animal Slaughterhouse
Industry - Information / Data Centers SUP
*
Industry - Storage Silo (accessory)
Industry - Trucking / Terminal Yard   SUP
Industry - Warehouse and Distribution P
Facility
Industry - Warehouse and Storage      P
(General)
Industry - Warehouse and Storage
(Hazardous)
Laboratory - Medical / Dental         SUP SUP   P
Laboratory - Research / Scientific    SUP SUP   P
Testing
Landscaping Business
Library                                   P     P     P
Lodging - Bed and Breakfast Inns          P     P
Lodging - Boutique Hotel              P   P     P     P
Lodging - Hotel                       P   SUP   SUP   P
Lodging - Long-Term Hotel (extended   P   SUP   SUP   P
stay)
Lodging - Motel                       P               P
Manufactured Home Communities /           SUP         P
Developments*
Mixed Use - Small Scale*                  P9    P9    P9
Mixed Use - Large Scale*                  P9    P9    P9
Mobile Food Unit *                        P     P     P
Mobile Food Unit Parks / Courts *     SUP SUP   SUP   P
Mortuary                                        P
Museum                                SUP P     P     P
Nursing and Residential Care Facility     SUP   P
Offices - (Medical / Dental /             SUP   P     P
Healthcare)
Outdoor Storage * (accessory)         A               A
Parking Garage - Private              P   P     P     P
Parking Garage - Public               P   P     P     P
Parking Lot - Accessory (Private)     P   P     P     P
Parking Lot - Public                  P   P     P     P
Parking Lot - Stand Alone (Private)   SUP SUP   SUP   SUP
Pawnshop
Payday Loan & Title Loan
Establishments
Pedestrian Tunnel                         SUP   SUP   SUP
Personal Services                     P   P     P
Professional Services                 SUP P     P
Public Administrative Offices         P   P     P     P
Public Facility / Building            P   SUP   P     P
Public Utility Yard                   P   SUP   SUP   P
Recreational Vehicle (RV) Parks *     SUP             SUP
Research & Development Facility       SUP P     P
Restaurant - Full Service             P   P     P
Restaurant - Limited Service          P   P     P
Restaurant - Snack and Nonalcoholic   P   P     P
Beverage Bars
Retail Sales - Boutique               P12 P12   P12
(< 5,000 sq. ft.)
Retail Sales - Limited                P12 P12   P12
(5,001 - 10,000 sq. ft.)
Retail Sales - Semi-Limited           P12 P12   P12
(10,001 - 30,000 sq. ft.)
Retail Sales - General                    SUP   SUP
(30,001 - 80,000 sq. ft.)
Retail Sales - Big Box                          SUP
(80,001 - 200,000 sq. ft.)
Retail Sales - Automotive (New) *
Retail Sales - Automotive (Used) *
Retail Sales - Fireworks (Temporary       P12   P12
Stands)
Retail Sales - Fireworks (Permanent)
Retail Sales - Large Equipment Sales
and Rental *
Retail Sales - Liquor Store               SUP   SUP
Retail Sales - Nursery15
Retail Sales - Recreational Vehicles
*
Retail Sales - Sales Lots*
Retail Sales - Secondhand / Thrift        SUP   SUP
Stores
Retail Sales - Shopping Center            SUP   SUP   SUP
Retail Sales - Shopping Mall
Retail Sales - Tire Shop
Retail Sales - Tobacco / Vape Shop *
Retail Sales - Truck Sales
(Commercial/Freight) *
Retail Sales Store w/ Gasoline*       SUP SUP   SUP
Riding School (Academy) or Stable
Rooming / Boarding House                  P     P     P
Schools - Commercial                  SUP P     SUP   SUP
Schools - Post Secondary (private)    SUP P     SUP   SUP
Schools - Post Secondary (public) *   SUP P     SUP   P
Schools - Primary and Secondary           P     SUP   SUP
(private)
Schools - Primary and Secondary           P     SUP   P
(public) *
Security Guard Quarters               A   A     A     A
Shelter - Day                             P     P     P
Shelter - Emergency                       P     P     P
Shelter - Homeless (overnight)            SUP   SUP   P
Shooting Range (indoor) *                             P11
Shooting Range (outdoor) *                            P11
Storage Facility- Self Service            SUP/C SUP/C
(indoor)
Storage Facility - Self Service
(traditional)
Swimming Pool (public)                                P
Tattoo / Body Piercing Studio
Taxidermy Shop
Temporary Uses                        See Section
                                      10-12-03
Therapy / Rehabilitation Facility         SUP   P
Transit Station (passenger)           P   P     P     P
Truck Stop                            SUP             P
U-Pick Farm                                           P
Vineyard
Wholesale Sales - General
Wholesale Sales - Nursery
Winery / Cidery *
Winetasting Establishment *               P     P
Wireless Communication Facility -         SUP   SUP   SUP
Large Scale *
Wireless Communication Facility -     ADR ADR   ADR   ADR
Small Scale *
Zoo                                                   P
Table Footnotes:
1   Accessory dwelling units are only permitted in conjunction with an
existing legal single family detached homes and when in compliance with the
Accessory Use section of this code.
2   Permitted only if located at major intersections of arterial or collector
roadways or along highway frontages, or as part of an approved Planned Unit
Development.
3   Must be located at “major intersections” of arterial or collector
roadways, along highway frontages, or approved as part of a Planned Unit
Development.
4   Permitted when accessory to a legal conforming winery or cidery, otherwise
a Special User Permit shall be required.
5   All uses must be permitted or specially permitted uses. Where a specially
permitted use is proposed, a Special Use Permit shall be required.
6   Design characteristics for building placement, scale and massing,
transitions and density shall be in compliance with this chapter and in
conformance with the comprehensive plan.
7   Drive-in or Drive-Through Services require an Administrative Site Plan
Review.
8   Permitted when accessory to a school such as; performing arts center,
baseball fields, etc.
9   See
10-12-03 for specific use provisions.
10   Only permitted if project is done by or a public-private partnership with
a public agency.
11   Only permitted as a public facility for public safety.
12   Must obtain fireworks stand permit from City Clerk’s Office.
13   The area designated for the work component must be located on the ground
level and occupy not less than twenty-five (25) percent, and no more than
fifty (50) percent of the total gross floor area of the live/work unit. Uses
for the work component are limited to permitted or specially permitted uses
(required special use permit) within the base zoning district.
14   In no way does the preclude any landowner from claiming an agricultural
exemption for growing crops in accordance with Idaho Code.
15   Permitted if accessory to site or parcel where a school - primary and
secondary (public) or school - post secondary (public) land use exists as the
primary use. No special use permits are required.
16   Only permitted when part of a school - post secondary land use and
located on the campus or on parcels directly adjacent to the school, and where
such property is owned by the school. Not permitted in the C-D zone otherwise.
17   All land uses allowed by right in which a building permit is not required
will require the submission of an Administrative Development Review (ADR)
application to allow for the review of the land use, site plan, parking,
landscaping and compliance with all other applicable city code regulations and
laws.
 
(Ord. 3668, 4-21-2025)
10-09-04 BULK AND DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
   This section contains the requirements for lot size and coverage, scale and
massing, and setbacks for all types of development. These standards may be
further limited or modified by other applicable sections of this chapter. Some
uses are subject to use-specific standards or overlay district requirements
that impose stricter requirements than set forth in this subsection.
Table 10-09-4:
Bulk and Dimensional Standards - Special Purpose Districts4
Table 10-09-4:
Bulk and Dimensional Standards - Special Purpose Districts4
Lot Size and Coverage                           A-D          C-D   H-D   P-D
   Interior Lot; Minimum Area (sq. ft.)      0            2,000 4,000 0
   Corner Lot; Minimum Area (sq. ft.)        0            2,500 5,000 0
   Minimum Lot Width / Frontage (ft.)        0            0     0     0
Scale and Massing                               A-D1         C-D   H-D   P-D
   Maximum Building Height (ft.)6            See footnote None7 None7 None7
                                                1
Setbacks                                        A-D2         C-D2  H-D2  P-D2
   Garage Setback; Minimum (ft.)             0            20    20    0
   Front Living Area Setback; Minimum (ft.)  n/a          15    15    n/a
   Interior Side Yard Setback; Minimum (ft.) 0            5     5     05
   Street Side Yard Setback; Minimum (ft.)   0            15    15    05
   Rear Yard Setback; Minimum (ft.)          0            10    10    05
   Alley (Garage/Parking) Setbacks: Minimum  5            5     5     5
(ft.)
Table Footnotes:
1   New buildings and structures located within the airport district shall
comply with height restrictions listed in form 7460 issued by federal aviation
administration.
2   A setback of 20' is required for any non-residential structure or building
adjacent to a residential zoning district.
4   Public land uses located in zoning districts other than the P-D (public)
shall be permitted to utilize the same height, setback and area requirements
as permitted in the P-D (public) zone.
5   There are no minimum or maximum side yard, street side yard or rear yard
setback requirements, except for all structures shall conform to the vision
triangle standards set forth in section 10-07-07 of this chapter and the
applicable fire and building code requirements for attached structures,
firewalls, and related requirements.
6   Regardless of the zoning district, if a new mixed-use, multi-family, or
non-residential structure is being built immediately adjacent to a single-
family residence, the maximum height of the new structure shall be 30' unless
allowed to exceed such maximum height by special use permit approval. For the
purposes of this section, immediately adjacent to shall mean within one
hundred fifty (150) feet, as measured from structure to structure.
7   Residential and multi-family structures are limited to 30' unless approved
through a special use permit.
 
(Ord. 3668, 4-21-2025)
10-09-05 DENSITY ALLOWANCES:
   The density allowances set forth below are applicable to all special purpose
zoning districts where residential is permitted and are based on the table
below.
Table 10-09-05:
Density Allowance - Special Purpose Districts
Comprehensive Plan   Compatible Zoning Minimum Density Maximum Density Density
Land Use Designation Districts                                         Bonus
Table 10-09-05:
Density Allowance - Special Purpose Districts
Comprehensive   Compatible                                 Density
Plan Land Use   Zoning     Minimum Density Maximum Density Bonus
Designation     Districts
Special Purpose C-D        4 du/ac         10 du/ac        Up to 16 du/ac1
Special Purpose H-D        2 du/ac         8 du/ac         Up to 12 du/ac1
Special Purpose P-D2       4 du/ac         20 du/ac        Up to 25 du/ac1
Special Purpose A-D        Residential not permitted within the A-D Airport
                           Zoning District
Table Footnotes:
1   See Section
10-03-18 of this chapter for Density Bonus Program criteria and
requirements.
2   Public projects that include residential are subject to approval by
City Council.
 
(Ord. 3668, 4-21-2025)
10-09-06 DEVELOPMENT OPTIONS:
   Different development options are offered in districts where residential
uses are permitted. These options are available to accommodate a variety of
community and lifestyle choices. The options described in this section may be
used at the property owner’s election.
   (1)   Standard Conventional Development: “Standard Conventional development”
is any development that is not part of an approved density bonus program,
conservation development, planned unit development or master planned community.
All regulations and provisions of the code are applicable
   (2)   Density Bonus Program Development:
      A.   The density bonus program development option is applicable only
within the C-D, H-D, and P-D zones where residential is permitted. It offers
additional density if a project meets certain criteria. The density bonus
program standardizes how additional density is awarded and creates standards
that are more evenly enforced throughout the city. The program addresses unique
goals and desired development types in different parts of the city.
      B.   Property owners may select which components are most relevant to
their project in order to achieve a certain level of density increase. Density
increases are given based on a scoring matrix in accordance with
10-03-18 of this chapter. (Ord. 3668, 4-21-2025)
ARTICLE 10: TRANSPORTATION POLICIES AND PRACTICES
(Rep. by Ord. 3668, 4-21-2025)
ARTICLE 11: OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICTS
Section
   
10-11-01      Short Title, Article Purpose, and General Provisions
   
10-11-02      Airport Impact Overlay Districts (APO-1, APO-2)
   
10-11-02-1   Purpose
   
10-11-02-2   Applicability
   
10-11-02-3   Definitions
   
10-11-02-4   Divided parcels
   
10-11-02-5   APO-1 Airport Land Use Limitation Overlay Zone
   
10-11-02-6   Airport Noise Sensitive Uses
   
10-11-02-7   APO-2 Airport Noise Abatement Overlay Zone
   
10-11-02-8   Limitations Applicable to APO-1 and APO-2 ZONES
   
10-11-02-9   Avigation Easement Grant
   
10-11-02-10   Nonconforming Uses
   
10-11-02-11   Airport Commission Review
   
10-11-02-12   Miscellaneous Provisions
   
10-11-03      Entertainment Overlay Districts (ED-1)
   
10-11-03-1   EC-1 Caldwell Event Center District Overlay Zone
   
10-11-04      Historic Overlay Districts (HD-1, HD-2, HD-3)
   
10-11-04-1   HD-1 Steunenberg Residential Historic District Overlay Zone
   
10-11-04-2   HD-2 Downtown Local Historic District Overlay Zone
   
10-11-04-3   HD-3 North Caldwell Historic District Overlay Zone
   
10-11-05      Scenic Overlay Districts (SO-1, SO-2, SO-3)
   
10-11-05-1   SO-1 Indian Creek Corridor Overlay Zone
   
10-11-05-1.1   Indian Creek Corridor Design Requirements; Downtown Districts
(D-CC and D-CB)
   
10-11-05-2   SO-2 Key Gateway & Corridor Overlay Zone
   
10-11-05-2.1   Key Corridors
   
10-11-05-2.2   Key Gateways
   
10-11-05-3   SO-3 Boise River Corridor Overlay Zone
   
10-11-06      Environmentally Sensitive Overlay Districts (FP-1)
   
10-11-06-1   FP-1 Floodplain Overlay Zone
   
10-11-07      Special Development and Urban Design Overlay Districts (UD-1, UD-
2, UD-3)
   
10-11-07-1   UD-1 Downtown Urban Design Overlay Zone
   
10-11-07-2   UD-2 River District Urban Design Overlay Zone
   
10-11-07-3   UD-3 Neighborhood Character Urban Design Overlay Zone
10-11-01 SHORT TITLE: ARTICLE PURPOSE, AND GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   (1)   Short Title: This article shall be known and may be cited as the
OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (2)   Article Purpose:
      A.   The Overlay Zoning Districts are established to provide additional
or more restrictive requirements for the specific type of overlay area that are
superimposed upon those of the base or underlying zone. Overlay zones address
special land use circumstances or environmental safeguards unique to the
property or its surroundings.
   (3)   General Provisions; All Zones:
      A.   Applicable Standards and Provisions: Properties within an overlay
zone are subject to the requirements and regulations of both the base zone and
the overlay zone. Properties located within multiple overlay zones shall comply
with the requirements for each overlay zone. Where the standards or provisions
of the overlay and base zone are different or in conflict, the more restrictive
standards shall apply.
      B.   In some cases, uses vary from the underlying zoning district and the
overlay zones. Standards of the overlay shall govern.
      C.   Unless otherwise provided, principal and accessory uses in an
overlay district are allowed only to the extent such uses are allowed by the
underlying zoning district and any other applicable overlay district and are in
conformance with all other application regulations of this chapter. Overlay
districts may prohibit land uses that may otherwise be allowed by the
underlying zoning district.
   (4)   Overlay Districts and the Zoning Map: All overlay districts shall be
delineated as an overlay on the Official Zoning Map of the City of Caldwell.
The boundary of the overlay district shall be shown and the short name for the
specific overlay zone shall be listed. (Ord. 3669, 4-21-2025)
10-11-02 AIRPORT IMPACT OVERLAY DISTRICTS:
10-11-02-1 PURPOSE:
   The Airport Impact Overlay is established to acknowledge the unique land use
impacts of airports, to contribute to the safe operation of the airport, to
regulate the siting of noise sensitive uses, to ensure that the heights of
structures are compatible with airport operations, to protect the possibility
of future expansion of the airport and to control and minimize impacts on
surrounding activities. It is also the intent of the Airport Impact Overlay to
encourage land use patterns appropriate in the vicinity of the airport for
public health, safety and welfare. Standards are provided to encourage trade
and commerce and thereby maintain economic vitality. (Ord. 3669, 4-21-2025)
10-11-02-2 APPLICABILITY:
   This section applies to properties located in the APO-1 Airport Land Use
Limitation Zone and/or the APO-2 Airport Noise Abatement Zone that are: 1)
within the corporate city limits of Caldwell at the effective date of this
article, 2) annexed after the effective date of this article regardless of the
zone designation assigned upon such annexation, or 3) within the current impact
area of the city of Caldwell provided that this article is made effective in
said impact area by the impact area agreement between the city of Caldwell and
Canyon County. The specific boundaries of the APO-1 and APO-2 zones are shown
on the zoning map and described in appendix A as attached to ordinance 2457,
and as may be amended. (Ord. 3669, 4-21-2025)
10-11-02-3 DEFINITIONS:
   Definitions shall be in accordance with Section
10-01-10 of this chapter. (Ord. 3669, 4-21-2025)
10-11-02-4 DIVIDED PARCELS:
   This section shall apply to all parcels of property lying partially within
the Airport Impact Overlay Zone and partially outside the Airport Impact
Overlay Zone, as well as parcels lying partially within the APO-1 Zone and
partially within the APO-2 Zone. For purposes of this section, the APO-1 Zone
shall be considered more restrictive than the APO-2 Zone, and the APO-2 Zone
shall be considered more restrictive than areas outside the Airport Impact
Overlay Zone.
   (1)   If the portion of the divided parcel in the more restrictive zone is
two (2) acres or less, the entire parcel shall be deemed to lie in the less
restrictive zone. Provided, however, that parcels touching a less restrictive
zone by only a driveway, deeded access for ingress/egress, “shoestring” or
other, similar configuration shall be deemed to lie in the more restrictive
zone.
   (2)   If the portion of the divided parcel in the more restrictive zone is
between two (2) and five (5) acres, the zone in which the majority of the
parcel lies shall apply to the whole parcel.
   (3)   If the portion of the divided parcel in the more restrictive zone is
five (5) acres or larger, that portion of the parcel must be developed in
accordance with the more restrictive zone. (Ord. 3669, 4-21-2025)
10-11-02-5 APO-1 AIRPORT LAND USE LIMITATION OVERLAY ZONE:
   (1)   Location Description and Boundary: The APO-1 Zone is a rectangular
area around the airport one mile in length on a line extended from each end of
the primary surface and one-half (½) mile in width each direction laterally
from the centerline of the primary surface and extended on that basis to
include area so measured from any proposed extension of the primary surface as
shown in the most current airport master plan adopted by the City Council. The
APO-1 Zone is shown on the zoning map.
   (2)   Land Uses: Except as provided herein, any use permitted outright or
allowed by special use permit in the underlying zone shall be available under
the same terms and conditions in the APO-1 Zone provided such use shall meet
the additional limitations and conditions of this article.
   (3)   Noise Sensitive Uses: For purposes of this article, noise sensitive
uses are uses that are incompatible with various exposures of noise from
aircraft and airport operations. Noise sensitive uses are identified in Section
10-11-02-2 (4) of this chapter.
      A.   Noise sensitive uses are not permitted anywhere in the APO-1 Zone,
unless otherwise noted herein.
      B.   Noise sensitive uses in the APO-1 Zone that are in existence at the
effective date of this section shall become nonconforming as a result of this
section. Nonconforming uses may be continued or rebuilt in accordance with
10-11-02-5 of this section.
      C.   Aeronautical or Airport Supported Operations: Noise sensitive uses
that are not in existence at the effective date of this article and are
otherwise available in the underlying zone may be allowed by special use permit
only where such use is: a) a bona fide aeronautical use, or b) any
aeronautically associated use that is necessary or desirable for the safe,
efficient, convenient and economical operation of the airport. Applicants have
the burden of proving that any noise sensitive use sought by special use permit
in the APO-1 Zone pursuant to this subsection supports airport operations,
provides services to airport users and protects the public interest and
investment in the airport. The requirements for noise sensitive development in
the APO-2 Zone shall be required as a minimum for noise sensitive development
in the APO-1 Zone.
   (4)   Landscaping:
      A.   Within the APO-1 overlay zone, the minimum tree planting
requirements outlined in Section
10-02-09 are not applicable to minimize conflicts with aircraft and airport
operations.
      B.   Landscaped areas, including tenant landscaping, shall be a
combination of shrubs, ornamental grass and groundcovers.
      C.   Shrubs and/or ornamental grasses shall be clustered in groups of
three to five every ten (10) linear feet. Shrubs shall be non-fruit bearing and
non-seed bearing.
      D.   Groundcovers shall be provided such that a minimum of thirty (30)
percent of the required landscape area is covered in shrubs, ornamental grasses
or groundcover, with the remaining covered in decorative rock and boulders.
      E.   Where permissible, undulating berms may be used to help screen noise
and give visual interest to the landscape buffer. (Ord. 3669, 4-21-2025)
10-11-02-6 AIRPORT NOISE SENSITIVE USES:
   (1)   For purposes of this section, noise sensitive uses include the land
uses identified in (4) of this section, which are further defined within
10-01-10 of this chapter.
   (2)   Any use listed as a permitted or specially permitted use within the
Land Use Tables of this chapter for the underlying zone and not identified in
this section is not noise sensitive.
   (3)   Any proposed use that is not set forth in the Land Use Tables of this
chapter or this section shall be evaluated and classified by the Director
overseeing the planning and zoning operations of the city, or his/her
authorized designee.
   (4)   Noise Sensitive Land Uses; principal and accessory:
      Arts, entertainment and recreation facilities (indoor)
      Arts, entertainment and recreation facilities (outdoor)
      Church or places of religious worship*
      Nursing and residential care facility
      Dormitory
      Dwelling - manufactured home
      Dwelling - mobile home
      Dwelling - multifamily; triplex
      Dwelling - multifamily; fourplex.
      Dwelling - multifamily; apartments (small scale).
      Dwelling - multifamily; apartments (large scale).
      Dwelling - single family
      Dwelling - two-family; duplex
      Fraternity / sorority house
      Hospitals
      Lodging - bed and breakfast
      Lodging - hotel*
      Lodging - long-term hotel (extended stay)*
      Lodging - motel*
      Manufactured home community
      Personal services*
      Recreational vehicle park*
      Rooming/boarding house
      Schools (unless the educational facility school/school program is
aviation related, which is then allowed).
      Those uses identified above with an asterisk (*) may be allowed within
the APO-1 Zone when accompanied with a signed and recorded Avigation Easement
Grant to the City by the property owner. The avigation easement shall be the
form attached to ordinance 2457 as appendix B, on file in the City as may be
amended, and shall be signed by all property owners as a condition of
application approval and prior to issuance of applicable building permits,
permanent certificates of occupancy, or business permits. (Ord. 3669, 4-21-
2025)
10-11-02-7 APO-2 AIRPORT NOISE ABATEMENT OVERLAY ZONE:
   (1)   Location Description and Boundary: The APO-2 Zone is a rectangular
area to the northeast of the airport beginning at the northeasterly edge of the
APO-1 Zone and extending one-half (½) mile further to the northeast the full
length of the APO-1 Zone. The APO-2 Zone is shown on the zoning map.
   (2)   Permitted Uses: Any use permitted outright or allowed by special use
permit in the underlying zone shall be available under the same terms and
conditions in the APO-2 Zone but is subject to the additional limitations and
conditions of this article.
   (3)   Compliance With Guidelines: Building permit applications for new
residential construction and/or for residential additions of more than two
hundred (200) square feet of enclosed space to existing construction in the
APO-2 Zone shall demonstrate that construction methods shall reduce noise
exposure inside the improvement by at least thirty (30) decibels from noise
measured immediately outside the improvement. Proof of compliance is the
responsibility of the developer/applicant.
   (4)   Notification: Rezoning applications, annexation applications, building
permit applications for new construction and/or for additions of more than two
hundred (200) square feet of enclosed space to existing construction, special
use permit applications, and/or subdivision platting applications in the APO-
2 Zone shall demonstrate that purchasers or tenants of the improvements or
subject property will be notified that the property may be subject to noise
exposure, light, vibrations, fumes, exhaust, smoke, air currents, dust, fuel
particles, radio, television and other electromagnetic interferences and all
other effects as may be inherent to the operation of aircraft for navigation or
flight in the air. Measures used to notify purchasers or tenants must include
at least a notice on: a) plats and b) deeds or leases.
   (5)   Exemption: Manufactured homes and mobile homes constructed to meet or
exceed the industry standard and HUD requirements in effect at the time of
manufacture shall be exempt from the requirements of subsection 10-11-02-07
(23) of this section. (Ord. 3669, 4-21-2025)
10-11-02-8 LIMITATIONS APPLICABLE TO APO-1 and APO-2 ZONES:
   (1)   Prohibited: No use in any of the zones described in this section
shall:
      A.   Create electrical interference with navigation signals or radio
communication between the airport and aircraft;
      B.   Make it difficult for pilots to distinguish between airport lights
and others;
      C.   Result in glare in the eyes of pilots using the airport;
      D.   Impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport;
      E.   Create bird strike hazards;
      F.   Otherwise endanger or interfere with the landing, takeoff or
maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the airport;
      G.   Potentially cause detriment to the airport operations by emission of
fumes, dust, smoke, and/or creation of other negative influences.
   (2)   Requirements Of APO-2 Apply To APO-1: All requirements of the APO-
2 zone shall apply with equal force and effect in the APO-1 zone.
   (3)   Requirements Of Underlying Zone: Development in either the APO-1 zone
or the APO-2 zone shall meet the requirements of the underlying zoning district
in addition to the requirements of this section.
   (4)   Height Limitations: In order to carry out the provisions and purposes
of this article, there are hereby established certain height limitations in the
vicinity of the airport. The city incorporates herein the object height limits
and restrictions established by the federal aviation administration pursuant to
title 14 CFR part 77 (hereinafter “part 77") as now in existence or hereafter
amended. Part 77 height limits and restrictions shall be imposed relative to
the existing primary surface as well as any extended primary surface shown on
the airport master plan. Height limitations shall be calculated with the
assistance of the contour and elevation map attached to ordinance 2457 as
appendix C, as may be amended. (Ord. 3669, 4-21-2025)
10-11-02-9 AVIGATION EASEMENT GRANT:
   Rezoning applications, annexation applications, building permit applications
for new construction and/or for additions of more than two hundred (200) square
feet of enclosed space to existing construction, special use permit
applications, and/or subdivision platting applications in both the APO-1 and
APO-2 Zone require grant of an avigation easement to the City. Such form is
attached to ordinance 2457 as appendix B, as may be amended, on file in the
City and shall be signed by all property owners as a condition of application
approval and prior to recordation of applicable rezone or annexation
ordinances, issuance of applicable permanent certificates of occupancy or the
City Engineer’s signature on a final plat. (Ord. 3669, 4-21-2025)
10-11-02-10 NONCONFORMING USES:
   Nonconforming uses may be continued subject to the regulations found
elsewhere in this chapter. Furthermore, in addition to all other rights
afforded nonconforming noise sensitive uses in the APO-1 zone, said uses may be
rebuilt and continued in the event they are damaged or destroyed by fire or
other casualties. However, no building permits shall be issued in connection
with any nonconforming use that would allow a greater hazard (for example: more
units, brighter lights, higher structures) to airport safety or noise concerns
than existed at the time of adoption of this section. (Ord. 3669, 4-21-2025)
10-11-02-11 AIRPORT COMMISSION REVIEW:
   Applications for rezoning, annexation, deannexation, subdivision plats,
special use permits, planned unit developments, manufactured or mobile home
parks or variances on any property lying wholly or partially within the APO-
1 or APO-2 zones shall be submitted to the airport commission for comment as
part of any action by the Caldwell planning and zoning director, Caldwell
planning and zoning commission or city council. (Ord. 3669, 4-21-2025)
10-11-02-12 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   (1)   Appeals: Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected by any
decision made by the director or the planning and zoning commission in the
application of this article may appeal the decision to the city council
pursuant to
10-01-02-1 and
10-03-12 of this code.
   (2)   Enforcement: It is the duty of the community development director to
administer and enforce these regulations.
   (3)   Conflicting Regulations: When there is a conflict between any of the
regulations or limitations prescribed in this article and any other regulations
applicable to the same area, whether the conflict be with respect to the height
of structures or trees, use of land, or any other matter, the more stringent
limitation or requirement shall govern and prevail.
   (4)   Savings Clause: The provisions of this article are declared to be
severable. If any portion hereof is found to be invalid, such findings shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portions, sentences, clauses and
phrases of this article, but the same shall remain in effect, it being the
legislative intent that this article shall stand notwithstanding the invalidity
of any part.
   (5)   Incorporation Of Appendices and Exhibits: All appendices, exhibits,
maps, plans or other documents referred to herein are incorporated herein by
this reference. (Ord. 3669, 4-21-2025)
10-11-03 ENTERTAINMENT OVERLAY DISTRICTS:
   (1)   Purpose: The purpose and intent of the entertainment overlay districts
is to create vibrant, walkable and connected areas that enhance the community
by offering a unique blend of larger entertainment, convention, lodging,
performance, recreation, education, dining and experiential activities. (Ord.
3669, 4-21-2025)
10-11-03-1 EC-1 CALDWELL EVENT CENTER DISTRICT OVERLAY ZONE:
   (1)   Purpose: The Caldwell Event Center District (EC-1) is established as
an overlay zone to ensure that future land uses are in conformance with the
vision of the adopted Caldwell Event Center District Subarea / Small Area Plan.
   (2)   Location: The Caldwell Event Center District is located approximately
one mile east of Downtown and is generally bounded by the Notus Canal and W.
Chicago Street to the northeast, Locust Street and the College of Idaho to the
South, N. 21st Avenue to the west, and E. Linden Street to the East. See Map
Exhibit 03-1: Caldwell Event Center District Overlay.
Map Exhibit 03-1: Caldwell Event Center District Overlay
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d91e966eb643f10f466c7d7b166e0181c6c38ab7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2501.jpg]
 
(Ord. 3669, 4-21-2025)
10-11-04 HISTORIC OVERLAY DISTRICTS:
   (1)   Purpose: The purpose of the Historic Overlay is to establish local
historic areas or historic districts to encourage the restoration,
preservation, rehabilitation, and conservation of historically,
architecturally, and archaeologically significant areas, structures, buildings,
sites, and objects and their surroundings from potentially adverse influences
which may cause the decline, decay, or total destruction of important
historical, architectural, and archaeological features, which are a part of the
City’s heritage, and to review new construction, alterations, and renovation
designs to ensure compatibility with the character of the district. (Ord. 3669,
4-21-2025)
10-11-04-1 HD-1: STEUNENBERG RESIDENTIAL HISTORIC DISTRICT OVERLAY ZONE:
   (1)   Purpose: The Steunenberg residential historic district is established
as an overlay zone to protect its history, architecture, ecology, and scenic
attributes that are threatened by social and economic pressures that manifest
through land use changes. This district shall encourage harmony and
compatibility in the planning of new buildings and development in keeping with
the district’s historic character. All land use actions occurring within this
zone are subject to the provisions listed herein and within
Chapter 2, Article 17 of this code.
   (2)   The Steunenberg residential historic district designation is a means
to recognize the defined area as a community asset that has historical and
architectural attributes worthy of protection and preservation. This subsection
codifies and promulgates the provisions contained in
chapter 2, article 17 of this code, pertaining to the Caldwell historic
preservation commission.
   (3)   Governing Structure: The legislature of the state of Idaho (pursuant
to chapter 46, title 67, Idaho Code) has declared the engagement in a
comprehensive program of historic preservation to be public policy and in the
public interest for all levels of government in the state.
Chapter 2, Article 17 of this code, provides the governing structure for the
creation of historic districts and is applied to the Steunenberg residential
historic district as of the date of its creation on August 19, 2002.
   (4)   Location Description: The following is the legal description for the
Steunenberg residential historic district boundary: Beginning at the point of
intersection of the centerline of S. 12th Ave. and E. Cleveland Blvd; thence
northeasterly along said centerline of S. 12th Ave. to a point 160'
northeasterly of the centerline of Blaine St; thence southeasterly along a line
parallel with and 160' northeasterly of said centerline of Blaine St. to the
centerline of S. 20th Ave; thence southwesterly along said centerline of S.
20th Ave. to a point 120' southwesterly of the centerline of Fillmore St;
thence northwesterly along a line parallel with and 120' southwesterly of said
centerline of Fillmore St. to the centerline of S. 16th Ave; thence
northeasterly along said centerline of S. 16th Ave. to a point 160'
southwesterly of the centerline of Everett St; thence northwesterly along a
line parallel with and 160' southwesterly of said centerline of Everett St. to
the centerline of said S. 12th Ave; thence northeasterly along said centerline
of 12th Ave. to a point 160' northeasterly of the centerline of Dearborn St;
thence southeasterly along a line parallel with and 160' northeasterly of said
centerline of Dearborn St. to the centerline of S. 13th Ave; thence
northeasterly along said centerline of S. 13th Ave. to the centerline of said
E. Cleveland Blvd; thence northwesterly along said centerline of E. Cleveland
Blvd. to the point of beginning. See Map Exhibit 04-1: Steunenberg Residential
Historic District Overlay.
Map Exhibit 04-1: Steunenberg Residential Historic District Overlay Boundary
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d91e966eb643f10f466c7d7b166e0181c6c38ab7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2503.jpg]
 
(Ord. 3669, 4-21-2025)
10-11-04-2 HD-2: DOWNTOWN HISTORIC DISTRICT OVERLAY ZONE:
   (1)   Purpose: The intent of this overlay zone is to promote the
preservation and rehabilitation of historic buildings in the downtown core and
to provide for new infill construction consistent with the historic character
of the district. See Map Exhibit 04-2: Downtown Historic District.
   (2)   Applicability: The following requirements apply to all new
construction, additions, and/or alterations for all properties within a
designated historic district contained within the downtown city center zone.
   (3)   Standards:
      A.   Basics: The secretary of the interior’s standards for rehabilitation
shall provide the basic direction for review of improvements affecting historic
properties.
      B.   Building Height: Building height is generally two (2) stories with
no more than a one-story variation between buildings. New construction should
set back any stories over two (2) from the historic property.
      C.   Building Setback: Structures should front on the street property
line.
      D.   Scale:
         1.   Structures on the corners should be larger and more ornamental
than buildings on the midblock.
         2.   The building proportions should be restored or maintained and
replicated in new construction. New construction should replicate the pattern
of original buildings which were typically fifty-foot (50') wide storefronts,
two (2) stories in height, and a ground floor height between ten (10) and
sixteen feet (16').
         3.   Repetitive patterns found in materials, windows and spaces should
be restored or maintained and replicated in new construction.
      E.   Roofs:
         1.   Roofs shall be flat or pitched behind a parapet wall.
         2.   Roof replacement materials should replicate the historical
materials.
         3.   Roof color shall not detract from the building.
         4.   Vents, skylights or asphalt roof materials shall not be visible
from the street.
      F.   Building Facades:
         1.   The original proportion and pattern of windows, doors, solid
areas and open spaces should be restored or maintained and replicated in new
construction.
         2.   The original placement and design of recessed, storefront doors,
vertical windows, and clerestories should be restored or maintained and
replicated in new construction.
         3.   The original features of window design including frames, sash,
muntins, glazing, sills, lintels, jambs, and molding should be restored or
maintained and replicated in new construction.
         4.   Upper-level windows should be of similar size and proportion to
windows in turn of the century buildings, i.e., vertically proportioned. Groups
of vertically proportioned windows are encouraged for office and commercial
uses, and public rooms of dwellings.
         5.   Facade materials of mostly brick, stucco, clapboards and stone
shall be restored or maintained and replicated in new construction.
         6.   The dimensions, color, and texture of materials should replicate
the original.
         7.   The painting of unfinished surfaces such as brick or stone, and
anodized or unfinished aluminum window framing is prohibited.
      G.   Architectural Features:
         1.   Architectural features such as cornices, moldings, pilasters, and
parapets should be restored or maintained, and replicated in new construction.
         2.   The design, proportion, materials and location of original
architectural features should be maintained or replicated in new construction.
      H.   Colors:
         1.   Colors schemes shall be simple and shall match the original
building color or colors typical for the historical era when the building was
first constructed.
         2.   Colors shall preserve or emphasize the structural building
details.
         3.   Color treatment shall be consistent in signs, building
ornamentation, awnings, and entrances.
      I.   External Lighting:
         1.   External lighting shall be the minimal necessary to maintain
safety and shall not overpower the building.
         2.   External light fixtures shall be simple in design and located in
such a manner that do not obscure the building’s design or ornamentation.
         3.   Fluorescent lights and light fixtures that predate Caldwell’s
city center shall be prohibited.
      J.   Mechanical Systems:
         1.   Mechanical systems shall be located in areas that are not visible
from the street and screened from other public spaces and properties.
         2.   Rooftop mechanical systems shall be hidden by a parapet wall to
the front of the building and screened from the alley or rear of the building.
      K.   Signs:
         1.   All new signs shall be architecturally compatible with the design
of the existing or new building.
         2.   Signs shall be integrated within the facade of the building.
Ideal locations for signs include: the lintel band above the clerestory
windows, entryways, display windows, or within decorative moldings that create
natural frames for signs.
         3.   The color, material, size, shape, and method of illumination of
signs shall be integrated within the facade of the building.
         4.   Flush mounted, window, and awning signs, and signs using symbols
or trademarks are encouraged.
         5.   Projecting signs, blade signs, hanging signs and suspended signs
are encouraged.
         6.   Signs appearing above the first-floor level should be limited to
a single line of content.
         7.   Buildings with numerous businesses shall limit exterior signs to
small identification panels at the entrance.
         8.   Anodized or unfinished aluminum framing around signs shall be
prohibited.
         9.   Digital signs, reader boards and signs with moving parts are
prohibited.
      L.   Awnings:
         1.   The shape, color and location of the awning shall be consistent
with the historical and architectural character of the building.
         2.   Awnings which are used as an integral and creative form of
signage should be encouraged.
         3.   Awnings with distinctive shapes such as barrel shape, segmented
arches, or round ended shall be carefully used.
         4.   Awnings which dominate the facade, run the entire length of the
building, obscure the architectural features of the building, and awnings which
are illuminated with fluorescent lighting shall be prohibited.
Map Exhibit 04-2: HD-2 Downtown Historic District Overlay Boundary
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d91e966eb643f10f466c7d7b166e0181c6c38ab7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2487.jpg]
 
(Ord. 3669, 4-21-2025)
10-11-04-3 HD-3: NORTH CALDWELL HISTORIC DISTRICT OVERLAY ZONE:
   (1)   Description: In 1979, the North Caldwell Historic District was placed
on the National Register of Historic Places. The district is two square blocks
in size and is the only historic district in Caldwell on the north side of the
railroad.
   (2)   Applicability: The North Caldwell Historic District is located in the
Original Townsite of Caldwell along Ninth Avenue between Albany and Belmont
Streets. See Map Exhibit 04-3: North Caldwell Historic District.
Map Exhibit 04-3: North Caldwell Historic District
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d91e966eb643f10f466c7d7b166e0181c6c38ab7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2489.jpg]
 
(Ord. 3669, 4-21-2025)
10-11-05 SCENIC OVERLAY DISTRICTS:
   (1)   Purpose: The purpose of the scenic overlay districts is to preserve
and enhance the natural value of important scenic and visual resources
identified by the community and to assure exclusion of incompatible uses.
   (2)   Design Review: All uses permitted in the base district are subject to
design review approval and will be evaluated against the site design and
development standards specified for each base zoning district, overlay zone and
this chapter. (Ord. 3669, 4-21-2025)
10-11-05-1 SO1: INDIAN CREEK CORRIDOR OVERLAY ZONE:
   (1)   Purpose: The Indian Creek Corridor zone is established as an overlay
to protect the land in proximity Indian Creek.
   (2)   Location and Description: The corridor extends a distance of one
hundred fifty feet (150') on each side of the creek as measured from the banks’
high-water mark. Any portion of a piece of property that exists within the one
hundred fifty feet (150') from the banks’ high-water mark classifies the entire
piece of property as existing completely within the Indian Creek corridor and
thus having to comply with all rules relating to development within the Indian
Creek corridor.
   (3)   General Requirements and Applicability:
      A.   All land, buildings and structures within the Indian Creek Corridor
Overlay lying in the boundary of the Indian Creek Corridor Overlay as indicated
in section 10-11-05-1 (2) and depicted on Max Exhibit 05-1, shall comply with
the section.
      B.   All buildings erected along or adjacent to Indian Creek shall comply
with section
12-01-19 of this code.
      C.   Pathways: Pathways are required along Indian Creek and shall be in
compliance with section
10-02-09-7(6) of this chapter.
      D.   Preservation of riparian, wetland and wildlife areas and appropriate
mitigation plans shall be approved by all jurisdictional agencies.
      E.   Placement of Structures: No structures shall be placed along the
banks in such a fashion as to cover the water bodies. No permanent structures,
support systems or impediments shall be placed on the banks of Indian Creek
below their high-water marks as has been determined by controlling agencies.
(Ord. 3669, 4-21-2025)
10-11-05-1.1 INDIAN CREEK CORRIDOR DESIGN REQUIREMENTS; DOWNTOWN DISTRICTS (D-
CC AND D-CB):
   (1)   Purpose: The purpose of the Downtown Districts Indian Creek corridor
design requirements is to set forth design requirements that allow for a range
of alternative methods for achieving the design objectives and to allow for
innovation and creativity in meeting the design objectives.
   (2)   Applicability: The following requirements shall apply to:
      A.   All new construction, additions and/or any exterior renovation for
property within the Indian Creek corridor (“within” meaning either completely
within or partially within any portion of the Indian Creek corridor that runs
through the downtown zoning districts).
      B.   The exception is that all new construction, additions, or alteration
of properties within a designated local historic district contained within the
downtown zones shall instead be subject to provisions set forth in section
10-11-04-2 of this article.
   (3)   Guiding Principles:
      A.   Relationship of new and existing development.
      B.   Create a visually interesting and inviting environment.
      C.   Strengthen the pedestrian environment.
      D.   Sustainable design.
      E.   Quality development.
      F.   Address the special opportunity of Indian Creek.
      G.   Create a distinctive skyline.
      H.   Minimize the appearance of unattractive elements.
      I.   Create linkages and passages.
      J.   Create a multifunctional and attractive streetscape.
      K.   Commit special attention to the design of civic and public spaces.
   (4)   Performance Standards:
      A.   Relationship with New and Existing Development:
         1.   Buildings shall reflect a minimum of two (2) elements of the
Richardsonian Romanesque, the revival, the Main Street revival or the Spanish
revival architectural style, or a combination thereof, as listed in subsection
10-08-09 of this chapter.
      B.   Creating A Visually Interesting and Inviting Environment:
         1.   Building frontages shall be designed to create inviting indoor
and outdoor spaces visible from the sidewalk, streets, and Indian Creek
corridor.
         2.   Both interior and exterior spaces shall be designed to recognize
and promote visual linkages to other defining elements, such as Indian Creek,
monuments, civic spaces, and other landmarks that orient the user.
         3.   Public spaces, courtyards and plazas shall be incorporated into
the design of new development to accommodate a number of functions, whether
organized or casual. Desired features in these spaces include fountains, art,
movable seating and tables, orientation to take advantage of winter sun and
summer shading, security at night and many points of access and connection.
         4.   Usable raised porches, terraces, or other private open space
shall be designed into the street sides of residential buildings to create
opportunities for neighborhood interaction.
         5.   Side and rear facades of buildings shall contain windows of
similar character as the street side windows to create a sense of architectural
continuity for all sides of the building, and also to provide “eyes on the
street” for safety.
      C.   Strengthening The Pedestrian Environment:
         1.   Building entrances shall be designed to give identity to
buildings and uses therein and to reinforce public spaces.
         2.   Pedestrian activity at the ground level shall include pedestrian
amenities such as display windows, recessed entrances, arcades, alcoves,
porticoes, awnings and sidewalk seating. Architectural details such as
cornices, ornamentation, light fixtures, that provide visual interest, shadow,
contrast and color to the pedestrian shall be incorporated into the design.
         3.   Buildings over three (3) stories in height shall be designed to
reduce the visual impact of taller building elements as viewed from the streets
through façade step backs or other architectural modulation.
      D.   Sustainable Design:
         1.   Sustainable, energy efficient and non-toxic materials shall be
used to create less impact on the local and world environment.
         2.   Solar energy devices and materials are encouraged and should be
integrated in the building design so as not to look extraneous or visible from
the street.
         3.   New development should be designed to provide solar access and
shall minimize the impact of shadows on neighboring buildings and spaces.
         4.   Energy-efficient lighting shall be provided in attractive
features that provide for security without shedding excessive light on
adjoining properties or polluting the night sky.
         5.   Streets and surface parking area shall be guided by the
principles of green streets. Desirable features are permeable paving, vegetated
infiltration areas, solar powered lighting, and native landscaping.
         6.   Low impact stormwater solutions that offer infiltration and
habitat value should be encouraged and should be consistent with adopted city
standards.
      E.   Quality Development: All standards as set forth below shall apply to
development within the Indian Creek corridor as it flows through the downtown
districts.
         1.   Address The Special Opportunity of Indian Creek:
            (A)   Building facades facing Indian Creek shall be open to the
creek environment with windows and doors, and where applicable to outside
dining areas.
            (B)   Properties adjacent to Indian Creek shall provide linkages
for pedestrian and bicycle access along Indian Creek and the Boise River.
            (C)   Visual and safe physical access to the creek shall be
provided.
            (D)   Public art fountains and other features should be provided
which reflect the creek side environment.
         2.   Create A Distinctive Skyline:
            (A)   Multi-story buildings are encouraged.
            (B)   A minimum of two (2) stories is required for all newly
constructed buildings.
            (C)   Create roof profiles on taller buildings to provide a
nonuniform skyline.
            (D)   The use of upper floor setbacks is required.
            (E)   Sloping roofs are encouraged.
            (F)   Roof gardens are encouraged to provide additional green space
in the urban environment, beautify roofscapes, slow stormwater runoff, and
reduce heat island effect.
         3.   Minimize The Appearance of Unattractive Elements:
            (A)   Service areas shall be located primarily at the alley; or on
sites not served by an alley, service areas shall be located at the rear or an
internal location on the site where visibility and odor from the street and
adjoining sites are minimized. Service areas along alleys, especially buildings
with Indian Creek frontage, shall be screened from view and designed with the
best possible appearance.
            (B)   Mechanical equipment, solar collectors, satellite dishes and
communication equipment may be located on top of a building if screened to the
height of the equipment. Screening shall be of similar materials and form as
the building itself.
         4.   Create Linkages and Passages:
            (A)   Emphasize the public sidewalk, Indian Creek corridor and
other public pathways as primary circulation. Avoid focusing circulation to
interior environments.
            (B)   Promote connections through buildings for public interaction
and pathway choice, particularly in buildings that face Indian Creek.
            (C)   Connections between major attractors shall be strengthened in
order to create an easily walkable atmosphere.
            (D)   Public spaces, courtyards and plazas shall be designed to
provide a visual or physical continuity between inside and outside buildings,
linkages with neighboring sites and buildings, and connection between the
public and private spaces. (Ord. 3669, 4-21-2025)
10-11-05-2 SO-2: KEY GATEWAY & CORRIDOR OVERLAY ZONE:
   (1)   Applicability: This section establishes that certain roadways within
the City limits shall be considered key gateways and key and properties
fronting such roadways shall be subject to special site, landscaping and design
standards. (Ord. 3669, 4-21-2025)
10-11-05-2.1 KEY CORRIDORS:
   (1)   Purpose; Key Corridors: Caldwell’s key corridors connect people and
help them move through the city but also serve as a distinct place that is high
profile. They utilize streetscape elements with distinct landscaping, signage,
or similar placemaking elements to create a sense of place as one moves along
the corridor.
   (2)   Location: Key corridors within Caldwell are as follows (See Map
Exhibit 05-2.1):
      A.   Cleveland Boulevard / Blaine Street
      B.   Franklin Road (Highway 20/26)
      C.   Karcher Road (Highway 55)
      D.   Ustick Road
      E.   Simplot Boulevard (Highway 19)
      F.   10th Avenue
      G.   Farmway Road
      H.   Middleton Road
      I.   Interstate 84
      J.   Caldwell Boulevard
      K.   21st Avenue
Map Exhibit 05-2.1: Key Corridors
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d91e966eb643f10f466c7d7b166e0181c6c38ab7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2493.jpg]
 
   (3)   Design: Design of sites and buildings shall include, where applicable:
      A.   Commercial and mixed use along street frontages;
      B.   Concealed surface parking;
      C.   Transitional density to residential areas;
      D.   Transit stops;
      E.   Protected bike lanes;
      F.   Consistent streetscapes with distinct landscaping;
      G.   Attractive signage and similar placemaking elements;
      H.   Streets with public space for all users, with an emphasis on safe
street crossings and intersections,
      I.   Uses with appropriate densities and uses that enhance street
activation, particularly near area hubs and planned or existing transit
services; and
      J.   Consistent architecture motifs and building locations that form a
sense of place and uniform urban edge.
   (4)   Design Concept Illustration:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d91e966eb643f10f466c7d7b166e0181c6c38ab7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2491.jpg]
 
(Ord. 3669, 4-21-2025)
10-11-05-2.2 KEY GATEWAYS:
   (1)   Purpose; Key Gateways: Caldwell’s key gateways serve as a distinct
marker than you are entering the city, a special purpose district or
neighborhood, a cultural district, downtown or other destination. Caldwell’s
gateways offer visitors a positive first impression, and welcome residents
home. Gateways are important components of urban design as they create
discernible markers of neighborhood distinction and can echo details of
community identity.
   (2)   Location: Key gateway locations within Caldwell are as follows:
      A.   10th Avenue at I-84
      B.   Blaine at 12th Avenue
      C.   Centennial Way at I-84
      D.   21st Avenue / Highway 20/26 at I-84
      E.   Karcher Road at Midway Road
      F.   Cleveland Boulevard at Homedale Road
      G.   Cleveland Boulevard at Simplot
      H.   Middleton at Lincoln
      I.   Highway 20/26 at Madison Road
      J.   Simplot Boulevard at Farmway Road
      K.   Ustick at I-4
   (5)   Design: Design of sites and buildings shall incorporate the following:
      A.   Enhanced corner bulb outs and enhanced landscaping, signage and
placemaking elements;
      B.   Streets with space for all users, with an emphasis on safe street
crossings and intersections;
      C.   Monuments or prominently featured public art;
      D.   A change in street tree patterns and landscape palettes;
      E.   Enhanced and distinct lighting;
      F.   Distinctive architecture and building design; and
      G.   Enhanced transit stops and street furniture (where feasible and
applicable). (Ord. 3669, 4-21-2025)
10-11-05-3 SO-3: BOISE RIVER CORRIDOR:
   (1)   Location: The corridor extends outward a distance of one hundred fifty
feet (150') from the bank’s high-water mark.
   (2)   General Requirements and Applicability:
      A.   All land, buildings and structures within the boundary of the Boise
River Corridor Overlay as indicated in section
10-11-05-3 (2) shall comply with the section.
      B.   Pathways: Pathways are required along the Boise River and shall be
in compliance with section
10-02-09-7(6) of this chapter.
      C.   Preservation of riparian, wetland and wildlife areas and appropriate
mitigation plans shall be approved by all jurisdictional agencies.
      D.   Placement of Structures: No structures shall be placed along the
banks in such a fashion as to cover the water bodies. No permanent structures,
support systems or impediments shall be placed on the banks of the Boise River
below their high-water marks as has been determined by controlling agencies.
(Ord. 3669, 4-21-2025)
10-11-06 ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE OVERLAY DISTRICTS:
   (1)   Purpose: The purpose of these overlay districts is to identify and
protect environmentally sensitive lands in the city and to promote public
health and safety by managing development on these lands. This includes
maintaining natural spaces, providing a safe environment for residents,
controlling development of hazardous areas, keeping surface water clean,
preserving and protecting habitats, and preserving and protecting wetlands and
native vegetation. (Ord. 3669, 4-21-2025)
10-11-06-1 FP-1: FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY ZONE:
   (1)   Purpose: The purpose of the FP-1 Floodplain Overlay District is to
conserve the natural state of watercourses and watershed. The Zone indicates
locations near waterways where floodplains have been identified by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). Due to the high flood potential in these
areas, requirements have been created for the protection of public health and
safety and to reduce the burdens imposed on the community. Other sections of
this code may refer to the floodplain overlay zone as F (floodplain) overlay
zone. For the purposes of this code, they are one in the same.
   (2)   Location: The boundaries of the FP-1 Floodplain overlay zone shall be
the special flood hazard areas designated as zones A and AE by the federal
emergency management agency in its flood insurance study (FIS) for Canyon
County, Idaho, and incorporated areas, dated May 24, 2011, with accompanying
flood insurance rate maps (FIRM) or digital flood insurance rate maps (DFIRM),
and other supporting data, adopted by reference in subsection
12-15-05(2) of this code. (Ord. 2875, 5-16-2011, eff. 5-24-2011)
   (3)   Applicability: These provisions apply to all privately and publicly
owned lands within the jurisdiction of the City of Caldwell and identified as
being within the FP-1 Floodplain Overlay District.
   (4)   Definitions: See
Chapter 12, Article 15 for definitions.
   (5)   Floodplain Development Permit: A floodplain development permit shall
be required prior to the commencement of any development activities within
special flood hazard areas determined in accordance with the provisions of
section
12-15-07(3) of this code.
   (6)   Flood Damage Prevention Regulations Applicable: When uses are
authorized under the procedures provided for this chapter, all of the
conditions of
Chapter 12, Article 15 of this code will also apply to the uses permitted in a
FP-1 overlay zone.
   (7)   Prohibition Of Structures: Other than the placement or construction of
public infrastructure, such as bridges or utilities, no primary, accessory and
temporary structures or buildings shall be placed or constructed in any area
identified as a floodway by the federal emergency management agency in its
flood insurance study (FIS) for Canyon County, Idaho, and incorporated areas,
dated May 24, 2011, with accompanying flood insurance rate maps (FIRM) or
digital flood insurance rate maps (DFIRM), and other supporting data, adopted
by reference in subsection
12-15-05(2) of this code.
   (8)   Nonliability Clause: The granting of approval of any structure or use
in the F overlay zone shall not constitute a representation, guarantee or
warranty of any kind or nature by the city or by any officer or employee
thereof, of the practicality or safety of any structure or use proposed and
shall create no liability upon or cause action against such public body,
officer or employee for any damage that may result pursuant thereto.
   (9)   Restrictions: Restrictions regarding height, rear yards, side yards,
front yard setbacks, minimum lot area, signs, vision clearance and parking
space shall be the same as set forth in each specific zone with which the FP-
1 overlay zone is combined. (Ord. 3669, 4-21-2025)
10-11-07 SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT AND URBAN DESIGN OVERLAY DISTRICTS:
   (1)   Purpose: The purpose of the special development and urban design
overlay districts is to establish regulations for site and building design and
development standards specific to the character of the zone and to prohibit
and/or limit certain types of land use within the zones.
   (2)   Overlay Zones Established: The following overlay zones have been
established:
      A.   UD-1: Downtown Urban Design Overlay Zone
      B.   UD-2: River District Urban Design Overlay Zone
      C.   UD-3: Neighborhood Character Urban Design Overlay Zone
   (3)   Uses Prohibited (UD-1, UD-2 and UD-3 Zones):
      A.   Land uses shall be in accordance with the land use schedules within
each chapter and article for each base zoning district, except that regardless,
if a use is permitted or specially permitted in the base zone, the following
uses are prohibited in the UD-1, UD-2 and UD-3 Overlay Zones.
      B.   No use as specified within
Table 10-11-07 shall be permitted in the UD-1, UD-2 or UD-3 Overlay Zones.
      C.   Any use prohibited by this section which is designated through the
appropriate process as a legal non-conforming use, may continue to operate as a
nonconforming use but shall be prohibited from expanding the use.
Table 10-11-07:
Prohibited Land Uses (UD-1, UD-2, UD-3 Overlay Zones)1
Table 10-11-07:
Prohibited Land Uses (UD-1, UD-2, UD-3 Overlay Zones)1
Adult Business
Aircraft Repair and Service
Airplane / Helicopter Hanger
Airport
Airport Terminal
Auction House
Automotive - Body Shop
Automotive - Car Wash
Automotive - Gas / Service Station
Automotive - Rental Lot
Automotive - Repair Services
Automotive - Storage (Indoor Only)
Automotive - Storage (Outdoor)
Automotive - Tow Yard
Brewery - Large Scale
Cemetery
Clinic / Hospital - Large Animal
Commercial Dairy
Commercial Kennel
Contractor’s Shop with Storage Yard
Correctional / Detention Facilities
Crematorium
Donation Containers or Pods (except for a temporary use)
Equipment Repair & Service - Large
Equipment Repair & Service - Small
Equipment Repair & Service - Household
Flea Market
Flex Space (in excess of 10,000 sq. ft.)
Frozen Food Locker Facility
Greenhouse - Commercial
Helipad
Industry - Light Industrial1
Industry - Medium Industrial1
Industry - Heavy Industrial
Industry - Animal Slaughterhouse
Industry - Information / Data Centers
Industry - Fireworks
Industry - Storage Silo (accessory)
Industry - Trucking / Terminal Yard
Industry - Warehouse and Distribution Facility
Industry - Warehouse and Storage (General)1
Industry - Warehouse and Storage (Hazardous)
Laboratory - Medical / Dental
Laboratory - Research / Scientific Testing
Landscaping Business
Manufactured Home Communities / Developments
Mortuary
Outdoor Storage
Pawnshop
Payday Loan & Title Loan Establishments
Public Utility Yard
Recreational Vehicle (RV) Park
Research & Development Facility
Retail Sales - General (30,001 - 80,000 sq. ft)
Retail Sales - Big Box (80,001 - 200,000 sq. ft.)
Retail Sales - Large Equipment Sales and Rental
Retail Sales - Recreational Vehicles
Retail Sales - Shopping Center
Retail Sales - Shopping mall
Retail Sales - Tire Shop
Retail Sales - Truck Sales (Commercial/Freight)
Sales Lots (Retail and Wholesale) *
Shooting Range (indoor and outdoor)
Storage - Self Service (indoors and traditional)
Truck Stop
Wholesale Sales - (general and nursery)
Wireless Community Facility - Large Scale
Zoo
Table Footnotes
1   Existing facilities within the UD-1 zone are permitted to continue
operations. Any improvements or expansions to such facilities whether on the
same parcel or expanding onto another site will require beautification
improvements to be made to all facilities, such as the installation of 6' high
site obscuring decorative fencing and landscaping to buffer and transition the
more intense uses from less intense uses and surrounding residential uses.
Chain link with slats is prohibited.
 
(Ord. 3669, 4-21-2025)
10-11-07-1 UD-1 DOWNTOWN URBAN DESIGN OVERLAY ZONE:
   (1)   Zone Boundary: This zone encompasses the area as shown in Map Exhibit
07-1: Downtown Urban Design Overlay Boundary.
   (2)   Land Uses; Prohibited: The land uses specified in
Table 10-11-07 of this chapter are prohibited on properties within the Downtown
Urban Design (UD-1) Overlay Zone, regardless of the zoning district.
   (3)   Design Standards: Properties within the Downtown Urban Design (UD-1)
Overlay Zone are subject to the design standards specified in Section
10-08-08 and
10-08-09 of this chapter, regardless of the zoning district.
   (4)   Design Review: Design review is required for all properties within the
UD-1 overlay.
Map Exhibit 07-1: UD-1 Downtown Urban Design Overlay Boundary
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d91e966eb643f10f466c7d7b166e0181c6c38ab7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2495.jpg]
 
(Ord. 3669, 4-21-2025)
10-11-07-2 UD-2 RIVER DISTRICT URBAN DESIGN OVERLAY ZONE:
   (1)   Zone Boundary: This zone encompasses the area as shown in Map Exhibit
07-2: River District Urban Design Overlay Boundary.
   (2)   Land Uses; Prohibited: The land uses specified in
Table 10-11-07 of this chapter are prohibited on properties within the River
District Urban Design (UD-2) Overlay Zone, regardless of the zoning district.
Map Exhibit 07-1: UD-2 River District Urban Design Overlay Boundary
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d91e966eb643f10f466c7d7b166e0181c6c38ab7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2497.jpg]
 
(Ord. 3669, 4-21-2025)
10-11-07-3 UD-3 NEIGHBORHOOD CHARACTER URBAN DESIGN OVERLAY ZONE:
   (1)   Zone Boundary: This zone encompasses the area as shown in Map Exhibit
07-3: Neighborhood Character Urban Design Overlay Boundary.
   (2)   Land Uses; Prohibited: The land uses specified in
Table 10-11-07 of this chapter are prohibited on properties within the
Neighborhood Character Urban Design (UD-3) Overlay Zone, regardless of the
zoning district.
Map Exhibit 07-2: UD-3 Neighborhood Character Urban Design Overlay Boundary
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d91e966eb643f10f466c7d7b166e0181c6c38ab7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2499.jpg]
 
(Ord. 3669, 4-21-2025)
ARTICLE 12: SPECIFIC USE PROVISIONS
Section
   
10-12-01      Purpose
   
10-12-02      Applicability
   
10-12-03      Specific Use Provisions Enumerated
   
10-12-03-1   Accessory Buildings And Uses
   
10-12-03-2   Adult Businesses
   
10-12-03-3   Animal Regulations
   
10-12-03-4   Artist Studio Or Gallery
   
10-12-03-5   Arts, Entertainment And Recreation Facility (Indoor And Outdoor)
   
10-12-03-6   Assembly Of Persons (100 Or >)
   
10-12-03-7   Automotive - Car Wash
   
10-12-03-8   Automotive - Gas / Service Station
   
10-12-03-9   Automotive - Repair Services
   
10-12-03-10   Automotive Wrecking / Salvage Yard
   
10-12-03-11   Churches And Places Of Religious Worship
   
10-12-03-12   Contractor’s Shop With Storage Yard
   
10-12-03-13   Cottage And Craftsman Industries
   
10-12-03-14   Daycare Facilities
   
10-12-03-15   Donation Containers And Storage Pods
   
10-12-03-16   Drive Through Establishments
   
10-12-03-17   Drone Delivery
   
10-12-03-18   Elevated Pedestrian Walkways
   
10-12-03-19   Equipment Rental, Sales And Service
   
10-12-03-20   Establishments Serving Alcohol
   
10-12-03-21   Flex Space
   
10-12-03-22   Home Occupations
   
10-12-03-23   Industry - (Information, Data Centers)
   
10-12-03-24   Manufactured Home Communities / Developments
   
10-12-03-25   Mixed Use Developments
   
10-12-03-26   Mobile Food Units And Mobile Food Unit Parks
   
10-12-03-27   Mobile Homes
   
10-12-03-28   Modular Buildings
   
10-12-03-29   Outdoor Storage
   
10-12-03-30   Recreational Vehicle (RV) Parks
   
10-12-03-31   Sales Lots (New And Used)
   
10-12-03-32   Schools - Public
   
10-12-03-33   Shooting Ranges (Indoor And Outdoor)
   
10-12-03-34   Temporary Uses
   
10-12-03-35   Tobacco And Vape Shops
   
10-12-03-36   Wireless Communication Facilities
10-12-01 PURPOSE:
   This article provides specific provisions for uses as set forth in the
applicable zoning district in accord with the land use schedule for each
district. (Ord. 3670, 4-21-2025)
10-12-02 APPLICABILITY:
   These regulations shall apply to any use listed herein regardless of zoning
district or as specified in each section. It shall be unlawful and a violation
of this title for any person to use, construct, locate, initiate, alter, or
maintain any structure, land or real property, or cause any structure, land, or
real property to be used, constructed, located, initiated or maintained, in any
manner which violates, omits, or fails to conform to any procedure, standard or
requirement set forth in this article. (Ord. 3670, 4-21-2025)
10-12-03 SPECIFIC USE PROVISIONS ENUMERATED:
   These standards are in addition to the requirements outlined in various
articles of Chapter 10, “Zoning Regulations.” (Ord. 3670, 4-21-2025)
10-12-03-1 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES, USES, and DWELLINGS:
   (1)   Purpose: To establish basic standard and regulations regarding
accessory buildings, structures, and uses, including Accessory Dwelling Units,
to ensure compatibility with the principal use and surrounding properties.
   (2)   Standards for Accessory Structures/Buildings: Except as otherwise
regulated herein, an accessory building or structure hereafter erected,
altered, enlarged, or moved on a lot shall conform with the following:
      A.   Regardless of zoning district, setbacks and separation distances for
primary and accessory buildings and structures shall comply with all applicable
city building codes.
      B.   No accessory building, structure, or use (signs are not considered
an accessory building, structure or use for purposes of this chapter) may be
placed, built or constructed such that any portion of the building, structure,
or use is on, in, or over any portion of any easement (recorded or nonrecorded)
or easement area or existing or future public right of way or right of way
area, including, but not limited to, foundations, footings, eaves, cornices,
canopies, and/or any other encroachment or projection. This shall apply
regardless of setback requirements and regardless of the size of the building
or structure, except in certain instances where the applicable utility provider
and/or the city has granted permission for such placement. While the city
generally prohibits the placement of buildings and structures, etc., in
easements and public rights of way areas, any buildings and structures, etc.,
that are placed in an existing or future public right of way, public right of
way area, easement or easement area, whether intentionally or accidentally,
shall be subject to the following conditions:
         1.   Structure shall be removed by and at the property owner’s expense
within five (5) days of a request by the city or utility to remove said
structure;
         2.   Structure can be removed by the city or utility after the five
(5) day deadline has expired, without the property owner’s permission and
without compensation to the property owner, and with or without notification,
as necessary for utility or right of way maintenance/improvements for any
existing or future public right of way areas or easements. Furthermore, city or
utility shall not be responsible for any damage caused to structure during the
process of removal;
         3.   Property owner shall sign and have notarized a statement, as
prepared by the city, acknowledging the above items.
      C.   Setbacks: The following requirements are applicable to all accessory
structures associated with a principal residential use utilized for residential
purposes regardless of the zoning district in which the structure is
constructed/placed and to all accessory structures within the C-1, C-2, C-3, C-
4, T-N, and H-C districts unless additional or other regulations are stated
within this chapter (Chapter 10):
         1.   A detached accessory building or structure accessory to a single-
family or two-family dwelling (duplex) that is less than two hundred (200)
square feet in size shall have a minimum three feet (3') setback requirement
and shall also comply with subsection (2)B of this section.
         2.   A detached accessory building or structure accessory to all
three-family or more residential structures and all nonresidential structures
that are less than one hundred and twenty (120) square feet in size is not
subject to the international building code and shall have a minimum three feet
(3') setback requirement and shall also comply with subsection (2)B of this
section.
         3.   A detached accessory building, structure or use two hundred (200)
square feet or greater, or 120 square feet or greater for three-family
dwellings and nonresidential principal uses, but under six hundred (600) square
feet, shall have a minimum setback of five feet (5') from any interior side or
rear lot line and shall also comply with subsection (2)B of this section.
         4.   Accessory buildings and structures exceeding an area of six
hundred (600) square feet are only permitted in the rear “yard” and shall
comply with all required setbacks as outlined in the applicable dimensional
standards table for the subject zoning district and shall also comply with
subsection (2)B of this section.
         5.   When on a corner lot, a detached accessory building or structure
shall be no nearer to a side lot line adjoining a street than the applicable
street-side setback required in the dimensional standards table of the
underlying zoning district and shall also comply with subsection (2)B of this
section.
         6.   Accessory dwelling units shall comply with all international
building and fire codes, but in no case shall such building and/or structure
have a setback less than three feet (3') from any interior or rear lot line.
When on a corner lot, a detached accessory dwelling unit shall be no nearer to
a side lot line adjoining a street than the applicable street-side setback
required in the dimensional standards table of the underlying zoning district
and shall comply with subsection (2)B of this section.
         7.   Storage sheds in non-residential zones shall comply with the
Outdoor Storage (Accessory) specific use provisions outlined in section
10-12-03.
      D.   A detached accessory building, structure, or use shall not exceed
twenty-two feet (22') in height in the R-1, R-2 and R-3 districts and shall not
exceed thirty-three feet (33') in height in the RS-1 and RS-2 districts.
Accessory Dwelling Units shall comply with height restrictions outlined in the
height, setback, and area schedule of this Chapter (Chapter 10).
      E.   The height of detached accessory buildings or structures in
commercial, industrial, and special purpose zoning districts shall not exceed
the maximum building height allowed in the applicable zoning district and as
permitted by the City’s adopted building and fire codes.
      F.   Trailers, or other portable/temporary buildings or structures shall
adhere to all Temporary Use Standards outlined in
10-12-03.
      G.   In residential zones, the square footage of an accessory structure
shall not be greater than that of the principal residence, unless approved
through a Special Use Permit.
      H.   When a building permit for the principal structure is issued at the
same time as the accessory structure, the certificate of occupancy for the
accessory structure shall not be issued prior to the principal structure
receiving a certificate of occupancy.
   (3)    Accessory Use Standards: Except as otherwise regulated herein, all
accessory uses (those not deemed the principal use of a property/parcel) shall
conform with the following general standards:
      A.   Unless a different setback is required/noted below or in separate
sections of this code (Chapter 10), all accessory uses shall maintain a minimum
setback from all property lines of ten (10) feet in all residential zones and a
minimum of five (5) feet in all nonresidential or mixed-use zones.
      B.   To be an accessory use, said use shall be subordinate to the
principal use in all aspects (size, location, etc.).
      C.   Swimming pools, in all zoning districts, shall be set back ten feet
(10') from all property lines. Barriers shall be provided and regulated under
the adopted building codes regulation swimming pools and spas. (see definition
of “swimming pool” in
10-01-10 of this chapter).
      D.   Clubhouses, fitness centers, and the like are permitted as accessory
uses in a residential district when they are part of a residential subdivision
or planned unit development and are located on a platted common lot to be
owned, operated, and maintained by a homeowners’ association. All setbacks and
height restrictions of the underlying residential zoning district shall be
followed.
      E.   Under no circumstances shall any detached accessory uses,
structures, or buildings (as listed in this section) be permanently used as a
dwelling in any shape, form or fashion, except other for an Accessory Dwelling
Unit as noted herein. This requirement also applies to camping trailers, tents,
recreational vehicles and similar unless the following circumstances are
present:
         1.   Such structures are located in a bona fide campground site or
recreational vehicle park and must then adhere to the requirements for a
campground site or recreational vehicle park;
         2.   The camping trailers, tents, recreational vehicles and similar
are being utilized temporarily (“temporarily” for purposes of this requirement
shall mean no more than 14 days within a 6-month time period) for visitors or
guests of the property owner and must be parked or placed on private property
outside of any right-of-way; or
         3.   The property owner is in the process of constructing the primary
dwelling and is utilizing a recreational vehicle or similar as a dwelling on
the subject property until occupation of the primary dwelling is possible, in
which case such temporary use may be granted by Planning and Zoning for a
period not to exceed one year.
      F.   Accessory uses, buildings and/or structures shall immediately be
removed by the applicant if it is determined by the Director that any standard
or requirement of the accessory uses, buildings and structures ordinance or any
other City laws, ordinances or statutes are being violated. Prior to any
removal, the applicant shall be afforded an opportunity for a hearing before
the Council; said hearing must be requested within seven (7) days of receipt of
a notice of order to remove an accessory use, building and/or structure.
Failure to request such a hearing will result in the applicant immediately
removing the accessory use, building, and/or structure.
      G.   BMX and dirt bike tracks, whether recreational or commercial in
nature, are not permitted as an accessory use in any residential or mixed-use
zoning district unless permitted or specially permitted within the applicable
land use schedule under “Arts, Entertainment and Recreation - Outdoor”.
      H.   Ponds and other water features shall be set back forty feet (40')
from a public right-of-way and twenty feet (20') from a side or rear property
line.
   (4)   Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) Standards:
      A.   An ADU shall include its own independent living facilities with
provisions for sleeping, cooking, and sanitation.
      B.   ADUs may be attached or detached to the principal residential
structure.
      C.   No more than one ADU shall be located on an individual parcel.
      D.   The ADU shall be limited to a maximum of nine hundred (900) square
feet or no more than seventy-five (75) percent of the principal residence,
whichever is less, and no more than two bedrooms (excluding garages and other
uninhabitable space).
      E.   The ADU shall have a separate exterior entrance from the principal
residence and/or an entrance to an internal common area accessible to the
outside; no internal access is permitted.
      F.   The ADU shall be consistent in design with the principal residence,
including siding, color, materials, and windows.
      G.   Manufactured homes and other modular-type construction are
prohibited for use as an ADU unless they are placed on a permanent foundation
and comply with all building code requirements for a permanent dwelling; mobile
homes are prohibited for use as an ADU.
      H.   Recreational Vehicles are prohibited for use as an ADU.
      I.   The ADU shall not be subdivided from the main parcel on which it is
located.
      J.   The ADU shall meet the setback requirements for accessory structures
as set forth in subsection (2)C of this section except when attached to the
principal residence where the applicable zoning district setbacks shall be
enforced.
      K.   ADUs that are attached to the principal residence do not need to
comply with the table in subsection (5) below.
      L.   ADUs shall be permitted within the Steunenberg Residential Historic
District per the standards and regulations contained herein and as set forth:
         1.   ADUs shall adhere to all regulations as set forth in
Chapter 2 of Caldwell City Code including obtaining a Certificate of
Appropriateness by the Historic Preservation Commission prior to building
permit submittal.
         2.   Only detached ADUs may be permitted; conversion of a detached
garage to an ADU may be permitted so long as all required off-street parking is
still maintained in compliance with
10-02-05 of this code and all other historic district design requirements of
the existing structure are maintained.
         3.   ADUs shall comply with the Steunenberg Residential Historic
District design guidelines and shall maintain consistency of design with the
existing residential structure, as outlined in
2-17-11 of Caldwell City Code.
         4.   All other zoning requirements shall be maintained for the
underlying zoning designation.
   (5)   The following table (applicable only to RS-1, RS-2, R-1, R-2, and R-
3 Districts and to residential dwellings in D-CC, D-CB, T-N, H-C, C-D and H-
D Districts) shows where accessory buildings, structures, and uses are
permitted, with respect to the location of the principal structure, as follows
(except that sheds and storage buildings for garden equipment and household
items may be located on a side yard adjoining a street in instances where a
parcel or lot has no available interior side yard or rear yard area and where
the property is not located within the Steunenberg Residential Historic
District).
Accessory Building, Front Yard Side Yard Adjoining Interior Side Yard Rear Yard
Structure Or Use4              A Street
                                                                    Front Side Yard Interior Rear
Accessory Building, Structure Or Use4                               Yard  Adjoining Side     Yard
                                                                          A Street  Yard
Accessory dwelling unit (ADU)                                             X1        X        X
Air conditioning equipment shelter                                        X1        X        X
Arbors or trellises                                                 X     X         X        X
Buildings, structures or enclosures housing livestock (see section                  X        X
10-02-15 of this article for definition of “livestock”)
Classroom modular units are permitted on a parcel or lot containing
an existing school and shall be located at least 30 feet from any   X     X         X        X
property line
Clothesline                                                               X1        X        X
Fireplaces, outdoor                                                       X1        X        X
Flagpoles                                                           X     X         X        X
Garages, detached                                                   X3    X         X        X
Gazebos                                                             X     X         X        X
Lawn furniture such as benches and birdbaths                        X     X         X        X
Lighting, ornamental                                                X     X         X        X
Patio, porches, decks, or similar                                   X     X         X        X
Playhouses                                                                          X        X
Pond and other water features                                       X     X         X        X
Portable RV covers/portable carports/portable vehicle covers                        X        X
Sheds and storage buildings for garden equipment and household            X1,2      X        X
items
Solar panels (ground mounted)                                             X1        X        X
Swimming pools, private, when in conformance with other codes             X         X        X
Television and radio antennas and satellite dishes (stand alone)                    X        X
Tennis courts, private                                                    X1                 X
Trailer pads or pads for recreational vehicles or the like (pads
are separate from, and in addition to, the usual residential              X         X        X
driveway for a residential dwelling unit)
Other accessory buildings, structures and uses herein permitted in        X1                 X
district regulations as accessory to a specific permitted use
Footnotes:
1   May be permitted within the side yard adjoining a street when located behind a minimum 6 foot
tall solid, sight-obscuring fence.
2   Maximum height of a shed and/or storage building shall be no greater than 9 feet.
3   Permitted only in the front yard when the Director determines that site constraints prevent
the structure from being located in the side or rear yards.
4   See
Chapter 2, Article 7 of this code for additional requirements applicable to structures, buildings
and uses within the H-D Steunenberg Residential Historic District.
 
(Ord. 3670, 4-21-2025)
10-12-03-2 ADULT BUSINESSES (AS DEFINED IN 10-01-10):
   (1)   In recognition of Idaho Code, the following distance separations shall
be required:
      A.   No adult bookstore, adult novelty store, adult video store, adult
motel, adult motion picture theater, or adult theater or cabaret shall be
allowed within one thousand (1,000) feet of the following:
         1.   An existing adult entertainment business;
         2.   A church or place of worship;
         3.   Any education facility, school bus stop, or youth organization;
and
         4.   Any residential district boundary.
      B.   A site plan shall be submitted with the Special Use Permit
application showing compliance with these separate requirements.
   (2)   Signs:
      A.   All adult businesses shall comply with the Sign regulations of
10-02-06 of this Chapter. Further, signs for adult business establishments
shall not contain any emphasis, either by movement, picture, or otherwise, on
matter relating to adult entertainment as herein defined or defined elsewhere
in this chapter.
      B.   Any adult business, as defined in Section
10-01-10, shall have in place at each entrance to such business a legible door
“sign” (as defined herein) stating “Persons under 18 years of age not
permitted”. The sign shall be no less than one-half (0.5) square foot and no
greater than one (1) square foot in area. An example of the required sign shall
be depicted on a plan sheet with the Special Use Permit, building permit
application, or with the business license application. (Ord. 3670, 4-21-2025)
10-12-03-3 ANIMAL REGULATIONS:
   (1)   Animal locations, structures, pens, corrals and/or any other premises,
enclosure or structure used for the keeping and maintaining of animals,
livestock, pets, and/or companion animals must be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition, free from obnoxious odors and substances.
   (2)   All persons who keep or maintain any animals, livestock, pets, and/or
companion animals shall keep them confined at all times to the subject property
in enclosures strong enough to prevent the said animals from entering the
premises or property of another, including sidewalks, streets and alleys unless
accompanied by the animal owner and unless the animal is contained on/with a
leash or similar.
   (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person keeping or maintaining any
animals, livestock, pets, and/or companion animals to allow the same to create
a disturbance to the residents in the particular locality by creating any
noise, odor or damage to the adjacent property, and the keeping and maintaining
of said animals shall not interfere with the peaceful and quiet enjoyment of
such property by such adjacent owners or residents.
   (4)   It shall be unlawful for animal/livestock/pets/companion animal owners
to fail to exercise proper care and control of their animals/livestock/pets/
companion animals to prevent them from becoming a public nuisance.
   (5)   All persons shall be guilty of allowing animals/livestock/pets/
companion animals to become a nuisance when they:
      A.   Consistently emit excessive and continuous noise;
      B.   Harass passersby and/or chase vehicles;
      C.   Habitually attack other animals/livestock/pets/companion animals;
      D.   Trespass upon public or private property; or
      E.   When owners allow excessive accumulation of animal feces and/or
related odor in such a manner as to affect the health and quiet enjoyment of
another person.
   (6)   Livestock:
      A.   Commercial Livestock Use: The raising of livestock for the specific
purpose of selling the livestock or livestock products (such as milk, meat,
eggs, etc.) represents commercial livestock use. Such use requires compliance
with the base standards in this section, approval of a special use permit and
compliance with all conditions placed upon the approved special use permit. The
raising of animals for youth development activities involving 4-H or Future
Farmers Of America (FFA) and the sale of such animals shall not be considered a
commercial use.
      B.   Number Of Livestock Allowed:
         1.   A minimum lot size of one-half (1/2) acre is required to qualify
for the keeping of livestock within the city of Caldwell.
         2.   Property owners are allowed the following maximum number of
animals per one-half (1/2) acre:
Animal Maximum Number Per 1/2 Acre
Animal                    Maximum Number Per 1/2 Acre
Chickens (no roosters)    30
Cows or similar           1
Ducks                     12
Geese                     6
Goats                     4
Horses or similar         1
Llamas or similar         1
Pigeons, doves or similar 30
Rabbits                   30
Sheep                     4
Swine                     4
 
            Note: The number of animals allowed per one-half (1/2) acre is
based upon the size and characteristics of the animal. The planning and zoning
department shall determine the equivalent number of animals allowed for animals
not listed in the above table, including miniature forms of large animals, and
shall take into consideration the purpose of this section and the impacts to
adjacent properties.
            In instances where a mixed livestock density is desired, the number
of types of animals desired shall be divided into the maximum number allowed.
For example, an individual who has one-half (1/2) acre of land wants to have
sheep, goats, swine and ducks which are four (4) different types of animals.
The maximum number of sheep allowed is four (4). Four (4) divided by four (4)
equals one. The maximum number of goats allowed is four (4). Four (4) divided
by four (4) equals one. The maximum number of swine allowed is four (4). Four
(4) divided by four (4) equals one. The maximum number of ducks allowed is
twelve (12). Twelve (12) divided by four (4) equals three (3). Therefore, the
individual could have, as livestock, a combined total of one sheep, one goat,
one swine and three (3) ducks on one-half (1/2) acre of land.
      C.   Standards for Livestock:
         1.   Livestock shall be kept and maintained within enclosures which
may include fences, corrals, barns, pens, etc., or some other structure that
will ensure the livestock cannot ever leave the premises of its own volition.
         2.   Livestock enclosures, regardless of square footage, must meet the
setback requirements of the zoning district within which they are located.
Livestock enclosures at residential dwellings located in commercial or
industrial districts shall meet the setback requirements for the R-3 (high
density residential) zoning district. Livestock enclosures in commercial and
industrial sites that are not residential in use shall also meet the setback
requirements for the R-3 (high density residential) zoning district.
         3.   All fencing shall meet the requirements of the fence ordinance
for the zone in which they are located.
         4.   The maximum number of livestock allowed is listed in the table
above. Maximum animal density does not include offspring born on the property
until said offspring are nine (9) months of age.
         5.   Property owners keeping livestock in accordance with the above
standards must maintain such animals in a manner that does not cause adverse
impact to neighboring properties. Potential negative impacts on adjacent
properties include odors, noise, drainage, erosion, and flies. Individuals who
keep livestock are responsible for the regular removal and disposal of animal
waste, and control of insects, erosion, and odor. Nondomesticated animals such
as raccoons must be kept in fully enclosed structures and shall comply with all
state and federal licensing requirements in addition to the provisions of this
section. Failure to maintain the property in accordance with these requirements
shall be considered a violation of this section.
      D.   Exceptions to minimum lot size:
         1.   Animals classified as livestock within this section may be kept
on less than one-half (1/2) acre for educational purposes, such as 4-H or FFA
if the performance standards listed above are complied with. The specified
maximum animal density allowed for one-half (1/2) acre shall not be exceeded
for such educational uses.
         2.   Animals defined as pets or kept as companion animals may be kept
in the numbers prescribed below regardless of the size of the parcel if the
performance standards listed in this section are complied with and no
individual household shall have any more than three (3) different types of
pets:
Cats                                                                   5
Chickens (no roosters)                                                 10
Dogs (see                                                              3
chapter 8, article 3 of this code for further rules on dogs)
Ducks                                                                  2
Dogs (see chapter 8, article 3 of this code for further rules on dogs) 3
Ducks                                                                  2
Geese                                                                  2
Goats (miniature/pygmy)                                                2
Miniature horses                                                       1
Pigeons, doves or similar                                              10
Potbellied pigs                                                        1
Rabbits or similar                                                     5
Reptiles (nonprohibited only)                                          No limit
Rodents (nonprohibited only)                                           No limit
 
            Note: Example - One (1) household could have five (5) cats, ten
(10) chickens and one goat as pets. To exceed these numbers and/or have any
more different types, a lot or parcel must be a minimum one-half (1/2) acre in
size and/or the individual must obtain special use permit approval.
   (7)   Animals Prohibited:
      A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor, keep, maintain or
possess within the city any of the following animals:
         1.   Mammals:
            All marine mammals.
            All marsupials except Virginia opossum, sugar gliders, and
bettongs.
            All members of the family Canidae (dog family), including, but not
limited to, wolves, foxes, jackals and coyotes, except domesticated dogs.
            All members of the family Felidae (cat family) except domestic
cats.
            All members of the family Huyaenidae, including, but not limited
to, hyenas and aardwolves.
            All members of the family Mustelidae except domestic ferrets
(Mustela putorious).
            All members of the family Procyonidae, except the raccoon native to
Idaho (Procyon lotor).
            All members of the order Insectivora except hedgehogs.
            All nonhuman primates.
            All rodents except domestic rats, mice, guinea pigs, hamsters,
gerbils, and squirrels not otherwise restricted by federal law.
         2.   Reptiles:
            Aldabra or Galapagos tortoises.
            All members of the order Crocodilia.
            Anacondas.
            Elapids (family of venomous snakes), including, but not limited to,
coral snakes.
            Komodo dragons.
            Sea turtles of any kind.
            Tuataras.
            Viperids (family of venomous snakes), including, but not limited
to, rattlesnakes, cottonmouths, and copperheads.
            Wild caught Gila monsters and beaded lizards.
         3.   Insects - All insects listed as agricultural pests by the USDA
and Idaho department of agriculture.
      B.   All animals listed as threatened or endangered on either a state or
federal level and all illegally imported animals shall be prohibited in the
same manner as those listed above.
      C.   The provisions of subsections A and B of this section shall not
apply to the keeping of such animals by any bona fide licensed veterinary
hospital for treatment, bona fide educational or medical institutions, museums,
bona fide zoos, or by rehabilitators, breeders, or exhibitors who are properly
licensed or permitted by the city, the Idaho department of agriculture, the
U.S. fish and wildlife service, or U.S. department of agriculture. (Ord. 3670,
4-21-2025)
10-12-03-4 ARTIST STUDIO / GALLERY:
   (1)   All mechanical equipment emissions; shipping and/or delivery; or other
outdoor activity areas shall be located a minimum of three hundred feet (300')
from any abutting residential districts, or the use is subject to a special use
permit.
   (2)   Adverse effects such as noise, odor, vibrations, and light which
unduly interfere with abutting properties shall be mitigated through setbacks,
buffers, sound attenuation, and/or hours of operation.
      A.   Compliance with this may be accomplished by adhering to the land use
buffer standards outlined in
10-02-09-6 and/or the screening standards of
10-02-09 in the landscaping code section.
      B.   Compliance shall be depicted on the site plan and/or landscape plan
with the Special Use Permit (if one is required) or with the Administrative
Development Review application, if no Special Use Permit is required. (Ord.
3670, 4-21-2025)
10-12-03-5 ARTS, ENTERTAINMENT, AND RECREATION FACILITY, INDOORS AND OUTDOORS:
   (1)   General Standards:
      A.   All outdoor recreation areas and structures not fully enclosed by a
sight obscuring fence (minimum 6 feet in height and neutral in color or
matching the principal structure) and/or landscaping shall maintain a minimum
setback of one hundred (100) feet from any abutting residential district or
use. The playing areas of golf courses, including golf tees, fairways, and
greens, are an exception to this standard.
      B.   Hours of Operation: No outdoor event or activity center shall be
located within fifty (50) feet of any residential use and shall operate only
between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., unless otherwise permitted in
accordance with Section
07-13-03 of Caldwell city code. Except that any outdoor live music, speaker
system and entertainment associated with the use shall be located a minimum of
one hundred (100) feet from all residential districts. No outdoor speaker
systems shall be allowed within a residential district.
         Modification of this standard may be requested through the special use
permit process.
      C.   Accessory Uses: Accessory uses including, but not limited to, retail
sales, equipment rental, restaurant, and alcohol sales, may be allowed if
designed to serve patrons of the site only. Except in the City Center zoning
district, the accessory uses may be designed to serve patrons of the Indian
Creek Corridor. Alcohol sales will require the appropriate licensing in
accordance with
Chapter 6, Article 7 of this code.
      D.   Outdoor Lighting: Outdoor lighting, including lights for sports
fields, shall follow all regulations as outlined in
10-04-10 of this chapter.
      E.   Stages and Speakers: Stages and speakers shall be positioned in a
manner as to project away from any residential neighborhoods
      F.   Parking Plan: A parking plan shall be submitted with the associated
application or building permit which estimates the maximum occupancy of the
use, the periods of time when the facility is occupied by one hundred (100)
persons or more and identifies the location of available parking for the use
within one-fourth (1/4) mile walking distance. If there is an inadequate supply
of parking to meet the needs of peak events, a plan for accommodating parking
needs through alternative methods (including remote parking with shuttle, valet
parking, transit, etc.) shall be developed.
      G.   Noise:
         1.   Noise originating from the site shall be buffered to the maximum
extent possible and be minimized to serve the needs of the facility while
limiting impacts to adjacent parcels.
         2.   Any outdoor live music, speaker system and entertainment
associated with the use shall not operate in excess of 85 decibels between 7:00
a.m. and 11:00 p.m., as measured at the property line of the business.
            (A)   Except, any outdoor live music, speaker system and
entertainment associated with the use shall not operate in excess of 70
decibels between 7:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m., as measured at the property line of
the business when surrounded on all sides by residential.
         3.   A noise study may be required to determine the decibel levels for
any sound equipment or music proposed to be utilized outdoors.
         4.   At the discretion of the Director, a noise-attenuating barrier
may be required to attenuate noise from an outdoor event. (Ord. 3670, 4-21-
2025)
10-12-03-6 ASSEMBLY OF PERSONS (100 OR >):
   (1)   Applicability: Uses that accommodate one hundred (100) persons or more
during specific periods, including, but not limited to: auctions; church or
place of religious worship; civic, social, or fraternal organizations;
conference centers; educational services; event centers; and public/quasi-
public uses.
   (2)   Standard: A parking plan shall be submitted with the associated
application or building permit which estimates the maximum occupancy of the
use, the periods of time when the facility is occupied by one hundred (100)
persons or more and identifies the location of available parking for the use
within one-fourth (1/4) mile walking distance. If there is an inadequate supply
of parking to meet the needs of peak events, a plan for accommodating parking
needs through alternative methods (including remote parking with shuttle, valet
parking, transit, etc.) shall be developed. (Ord. 3670, 4-21-2025)
10-12-03-7 AUTOMOTIVE - CAR WASH:
   (1)   A site plan shall be submitted that demonstrates safe pedestrian and
vehicular access and circulation on the site and between adjacent properties.
At a minimum, the following standards shall be demonstrated on the site plan:
      A.   Stacking lanes shall have sufficient capacity to prevent obstruction
by patrons of any public right-of-way or shared drive aisles.
      B.   The stacking lane shall be a separate lane from the circulation
lanes needed for access and parking.
      C.   The stacking lane shall not be located within ten (10) feet of any
residential district or existing residence. A landscape buffer or combination
of buffer and sidewalk may be located in this 10-foot area.
      D.   When a vehicle circulation lane and/or the car wash exit faces a
residential use or district, additional landscaping a minimum of three (3) feet
in height shall be placed at the edge of these vehicle lanes and/or the
property line to mitigate light trespassing from headlights.
   (2)   If not fully enclosed, use shall be located a minimum of one hundred
(100) feet from any abutting residential district and shall be limited in
operating hours from 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
   (3)   If the car wash is unattended, the entrance or view of the facility
shall be open to the public street or to adjoining businesses, shall have low
impact security lighting, and any landscape shrubbery between the facility and
the public street shall be limited to no more than three (3) feet in height.
(Ord. 3670, 4-21-2025)
10-12-03-8 AUTOMOTIVE - GAS / SERVICE STATION:
   (1)   General Standards:
      A.   As an accessory use to a retail sales use (as defined in
10-01-10), fuel canopy facilities shall not cover more than fifty percent (50%)
of the subject property.
      B.   Installation of underground fuel tanks shall require written
approval from the Caldwell Fire Department.
      C.   The total height of any overhead canopy or weather protection device
shall not exceed twenty feet (20').
         1.   The allowable canopy signage shall not exceed 25% of the canopy
façade area, per façade face;
         2.   Any canopy sign shall not extend above the top of the canopy
structure;
         3.   Canopy signs (letters/letter copy only) may be nonilluminated or
internally illuminated provided all lighting complies with other standards in
this chapter;
      D.   Vehicle stacking lanes shall be available on the property but
outside the fueling areas. Stacking lanes shall have sufficient capacity to
prevent obstruction of the public right-of-way by patrons. Such stacking lanes
shall be separate from areas required for access and parking. The stacking
lanes shall not be located within ten (10) feet of any abutting residential
districts.
      E.   The use shall be located on an arterial street or as permitted by
the applicable land use schedule of this chapter (Chapter 10).
   (2)   Additional standards for Truck Stop:
      A.   The use shall be located on a principal arterial, state highway, or
within ½ mile of an interstate interchange.
      B.   The use shall be located a minimum of six hundred (600) feet from
any residential district and a minimum of one thousand (1,000) feet from any
hospital. (Ord. 3670, 4-21-2025)
10-12-03-9 AUTOMOTIVE - REPAIR SERVICES:
   All automotive repair service uses shall comply with the following:
   (1)   Where adjoining a residential district or use, all repair activities
shall occur within an enclosed structure.
   (2)   Inoperable or dismantled motor vehicles shall be stored behind a
closed vision fence, wall, or screen consistent with the Screening standards of
this Chapter (
10-02-09) or stored within an enclosed structure; in no case shall said
vehicles be visible from a street or an abutting residence.
   (3)   No vehicle shall be stored outside of an enclosed building for more
than thirty (30) consecutive days.
   (4)   Storage of all vehicles must be contained onsite; no use of street
parking is permitted for business purposes. (Ord. 3670, 4-21-2025)
10-12-03-10 AUTOMOTIVE - WRECKING / SALVAGE YARDS:
   (1)   No portion of the wrecking / salvage yard, outside storage, or outside
activity may be visible from any highway, interstate, or arterial roadway.
   (2)   The yard, outside storage, and any outside activity shall be
incorporated into the overall design of the site, landscaping, and any
buildings so the visual impacts of these functions are fully contained and
screened from view of any adjacent properties and/or public streets. Property
shall be screened by a solid fence/wall with a minimum height of six (6) feet
and a maximum height of eight (8) feet and no materials, inventory, and/or
supplies shall be stored so they exceed the height of the fence/wall.
   (3)   All outside storage or outside activity shall be located a minimum of
five hundred (500) feet from any residential district.
   (4)   No person shall establish, operate, or maintain a vehicle wrecking
yard, any portion of which is within one thousand (1,000) feet of the nearest
edge of the right-of-way and visible from any highway or interstate. See Idaho
Code § 40-313.
   (5)   An area for processing vehicles as they are brought to the site shall
be designated on a site plan. The processing area shall be an impermeable
surface that has a means to collect and properly dispose of oils and fluids in
the vehicles.
   (6)   The applicant shall obtain all necessary permits for the storage of
materials on the site, including, but not limited to, oil, hazardous waste, and
tires. (Ord. 3670, 4-21-2025)
10-12-03-11 CHURCHES OR PLACES OF WORSHIP:
   (1)   Permitted ancillary activities shall be those related to the purpose
of religious worship, government of the church or fellowship of the
congregation, housing of employees, operating a daycare or school, or providing
services to those in need.
   (2)   A parking plan shall be submitted with the associated application or
building permit which estimates the maximum occupancy of the use, the periods
of time when the facility is occupied by one hundred (100) persons or more, and
identifies the location of available parking for the use within one-fourth (1/
4) mile walking distance. If there is an inadequate supply of parking to meet
the needs of peak events, a plan for accommodating parking needs through
alternative methods (including remote parking with shuttle, valet parking,
transit, etc.) shall be developed. (Ord. 3670, 4-21-2025)
10-12-03-12 CONTRACTOR’S SHOP WITH STORAGE YARD:
   (1)   A contractor’s storage yard shall be an accessory to a principal
building and located on the same parcel or lot as the primary contractor’s
shop.
   (2)   All accessory outdoor storage shall comply with the specific use
provisions of
10-12-03 (Outdoor Storage), shall be screened with a sight obscuring fence a
minimum of six (6) feet and a maximum of eight (8) feet in height, and shall
comply with all fencing regulations of this Chapter.
   (3)   If adjacent to a residential district or use, all noxious functions of
the use that create noise, odor, glare, etc., shall be fully enclosed or shall
be located a minimum of fifty (50) feet from the shared property line. This may
be modified through the Special Use Permit process.
   (4)   For the purposes of this title, a contractor’s shop with storage yard
is not a home occupation.
   (5)   Any maintenance of vehicles or machinery shall be incidental to the
contractor’s shop and shall only include minor repairs. Otherwise, it may be
deemed an Automotive - Repair Services use, as herein defined and conditioned.
   (6)   The site shall not be used as an “Automotive wrecking/salvage yard,”
as herein defined.
   (7)   Office space for employees only is allowed as an accessory use.
   (8)   An all-weather, concrete or asphalt surface is required in all outdoor
storage areas where employees regularly utilize the space for vehicular
circulation. The surface shall comply with all Engineering and Fire
requirements. Outdoor vehicle storage uses shall pave all drive aisles but may
utilize gravel or other permeable surfaces on the storage spaces themselves.
(Ord. 3670, 4-21-2025)
10-12-03-13 COTTAGE AND CRAFTSMAN INDUSTRIES:
   (1)   Cottage Industries: Cottage industries shall conform to the following
requirements:
      A.   Not more than two employees shall be working on the premises in
addition to the members of the family residing on the premises.
      B.   The cottage industry shall be clearly incidental and subordinate to
the use of a parcel containing a dwelling occupied as a principal residence of
the owner or operator of the cottage industry.
      C.   Multiple uses may be permitted within a cottage industry. The area
occupied by all uses within the cottage industry, including storage, shall not
exceed 1,000 square feet.
      D.   All aspects of the cottage industry shall be located and conducted
within a dwelling unit or enclosed accessory building(s).
      E.   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of any building
or the premises, except one non-illuminated sign not exceeding six square feet
in area and four feet in height shall be permitted.
      F.   In the event a new building is constructed to accommodate the
cottage industry, it shall maintain a similar style and character to that of
existing buildings within the vicinity.
      G.   The sale of merchandise not produced on the premises shall be
incidental and accessory to the merchandise or service produced by the cottage
industry and shall not be advertised in any manner.
      H.   Not more than ten customers or clients shall come to premises during
any one day, restricted to the hours 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.
      I.   Not more than two delivery vehicles shall access the premises each
week.
      J.   Large vehicles or construction equipment (such as trucks of over one
ton rating) is not permitted as part of a cottage industry.
      K.   No equipment or process used in the cottage industry shall create
noise, vibration, glare, fumes, dust, odors, smoke, electrical interference or
other impacts in excess of those customarily generated by single-family
residential uses in the neighborhood.
      L.   Adequate off-street parking shall be provided according to the
provisions of Section
10-02-05.
      M.   The Director reserves the right to require a Special Use Permit if
it is deemed the applicant cannot adequately address the impacts noted herein.
   (2)   Craftsman / Artisan Industries:
      A.   All mechanical equipment emissions; shipping and/or delivery; or
other outdoor activity areas shall be located a minimum of three hundred feet
(300') from any abutting residential districts, or the use is subject to a
special use permit.
      B.   All outdoor storage areas shall be screened by a six (6) high solid
sight-obscuring fence. Chain link with slats is not permitted.
      C.   The application shall identify how the proposed use will address the
impacts of noise and other emissions on adjoining residential districts. More
specifically, the following adverse effects shall be mitigated through
setbacks, buffers, sound attenuation and/or hours of operation:
         1.    Noise, odor, or vibrations detectable by the human senses
without the aid of instruments.
         2.   Radioactivity and electric or electromagnetic disturbances which
unduly interfere with the normal operation of equipment, instruments, or
appliances on abutting properties.
         3.   Any other emission or radiation which endangers human health,
results in damages to vegetation or property, or which exceed health and safety
standards.
      D.   The Director reserves the right to require a Special Use Permit if
it is deemed the applicant cannot adequately address the impacts noted herein.
(Ord. 3670, 4-21-2025)
10-12-03-14 DAYCARE FACILITIES:
   (1)   All in-home daycares, daycare centers, and/or preschools shall abide
by all state of Idaho code and/or licensure requirements and shall also receive
state licensure regardless of the type of daycare and regardless of the number
of children cared for. All types of daycares shall submit to the planning and
zoning department a copy of their state license within thirty (30) days of
receipt.
   (2)   In determining the size and type of daycare facility, the total number
of children at the facility at one time is the determining factor:
      A.   In-home daycares shall not provide care for more than twelve (12)
children, including the provider’s own children under age 13;
      B.   Daycares providing services for 13 or more children shall be located
in a nonresidential facility.
   (3)   Paved on-site vehicle pick up, parking and turnaround areas shall be
provided and depicted on a site plan to ensure safe discharge and pick up of
clients.
   (4)   In residential districts or adjacent to an existing residence, the
hours of operation shall be limited to the hours between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00
p.m. This standard may be modified through approval of a Special Use Permit.
   (5)   Any and all outdoor play areas shall be completely enclosed by minimum
six-foot nonscalable fences to secure against exit/entry by small children and
to screen abutting properties.
   (6)   Outdoor play equipment shall not be located in a front yard.
   (7)   Outdoor play areas in residential districts adjacent to an existing
residence shall not be used after dusk.
   (8)   In-home daycares in no way shall emit lighting, noise, fumes, smoke,
dust, odors, vibrations, or electrical interference that can be observed
outside the dwelling. (Ord. 3670, 4-21-2025)
10-12-03-15 DONATION CONTAINERS / STORAGE PODS:
   (1)   Containers or pods that are utilized for permanent use (not seasonal
or as a temporary use) shall only be permitted as an accessory use to a primary
nonresidential use, that is permitted or specially permitted in accordance with
this chapter and is engaged in the business of acquiring used/donated goods for
repurpose or resale.
   (2)   Containers or pods utilized for donation drop-offs shall be placed in
the side or rear yards and shall not be located between the primary building
and any public street and shall not remove any required parking so that the
minimum number of spaces required is maintained.
   (3)   Donation containers shall be screened from the view of any abutting
residential property and/or public space by a site obscuring fence,
landscaping, or a combination thereof.
   (4)   The donation container shall be regularly maintained in such a manner
that it remains in good condition and appearance, is usable to the public, and
is not consistently overflowing, creating a public nuisance.
   (5)   Donation containers placed for long-term or permanent placement in
accordance with this section may be required to be painted a neutral shade
which blends with the surrounding premises or nearby structures on the same
property.
   (6)   Containers or pods may not be used for any types of human occupancy or
animal sheltering
   (7)   Containers or pods shall not occupy the required off-street parking,
loading or landscaping areas, and shall not block any vehicular or pedestrian
accessways, driveways, sidewalks, or other paths of travel.
   (8)   Containers or pods utilized for temporary use shall conform to 10-12-
03-15 (4), (6), and (7), and to the provisions within the temporary use section
of this chapter. (Ord. 3670, 4-21-2025)
10-12-03-16 DRIVE-THRU ESTABLISHMENTS:
   (1)   All establishments providing drive-thru service shall identify the
stacking lane, menu, speaker location (if applicable), and window location on a
site plan with the building permit or Special Use Permit application.
   (2)   The required site plan shall depict the following standards at a
minimum:
      A.   The entrance and exit from the drive-through lane shall be internal
to the site, not a direct entrance and/or exit to or from a public street;
      B.   Drive-through windows and stacking lanes shall not be located along
facades of buildings that face a street without proper screening;
      C.   Stacking lanes shall have sufficient capacity to prevent obstruction
of the public right of way by patrons. The stacking lane shall be a separate
continuous lane from the circulation lanes needed for access and parking (shall
not be interrupted by any drive lanes). The stacking lane shall not be located
within ten feet (10') of any residential district or existing residence;
      D.   A minimum of three (3) consecutive loading spaces (a minimum of 75
feet in length) for stacking shall be provided from the exterior speaker/order
area and shall not interfere with any off-street parking spaces, drive aisle,
or any portion of the driving lane/entrance. More stacking may be required at
the determination of the Director based on the land use;
      E.   All drive-through window lanes shall be separated by curb from the
parking lot’s interior driveways;
      F.   Any exterior speaker/microphone system shall be arranged and/or
screened to prevent objectionable noise impact on adjoining properties;
      G.   Exterior trash receptacles shall be provided to prevent the
scattering of litter;
      H.   All exterior seating/play areas shall be separated from a drive-
through with a four foot (4') tall fence.
      I.   Consideration shall be given to the pedestrian access to and from
the drive-thru establishment and include a minimum of one (1) connection from
the main building entrance to the public roadway sidewalk. Where said sidewalk
crosses a circulation lane or drive-thru lane, it shall be constructed of a
differing material to distinguish the sidewalk from the vehicular driving
surfaces through the use of pavers, colored or scored concrete, bricks, or
similar; striping does not satisfy this standard. (Ord. 3670, 4-21-2025)
10-12-03-17 DRONE DELIVERY:
   These regulations are meant to support measured implementation of new
technologies, address potential impacts to nearby property, and shall apply to
both commercial drone delivery hub (large) and commercial drone delivery hub
(small) uses, except where individually referenced.
   (1)   Commercial Drone Delivery Hubs (Large): A commercial drone delivery
hub (large) may be allowed, if and when granted by a special use permit, in the
C-3, C-4, H-C, M-1, M-2, and I-P districts if the requirements of this section
are met.
   (2)   Commercial Drone Delivery Hubs (Small):
      A.   A commercial drone delivery hub (small) is allowed as a primary use
in the C-3, C-4, H-C, M-1, M-2, and I-P districts when the requirements of this
section are met.
      B.   A commercial drone delivery hub (small) is allowed as an accessory
use to a permitted food/grocery store, restaurant, retail store, shopping
center, or warehouse/distribution center use in any district when the
requirements of this section are met.
      C.   When a detached accessory building is occupied or intended to be
occupied for an accessory commercial drone delivery hub (small), the floor area
is limited to a maximum of 10% of the total floor area of the building
containing the primary use.
   (3)   Drone Staging Areas:
      A.   The drone staging area must be designated on an approved site plan.
      B.   The drone staging area shall not be placed in the following areas:
         1.   Within any required setbacks;
         2.   Within any required landscaping or landscape buffers;
         3.   Within any fire lanes, easements, maneuvering aisles, customer
pick-up lanes, drive aisles, parking, required loading zones and parking
spaces; or
         4.   So as to obstruct visibility or interfere with pedestrian or
vehicle circulation.
      C.   As an accessory use, the drone staging area is limited to 10% of the
total lot area or 1,000 square feet, whichever is less. A drone staging area
located inside of or on the roof of the building containing the primary use is
not subject to this size limitation.
      D.   When located at grade; any goods or materials or other equipment
shall be screened by a six (6) foot high, solid sight-obscuring fence. Chain
link with slats is not permitted except as permitted elsewhere in this code for
the M-1, M-2, or I-P districts. Landing pads are exempt from this screening
requirement.
      E.   Drone Staging Areas on Top of Buildings:
         1.   Any roof-mounted mechanical equipment, excluding land pads, shall
be screened.
         2.   Any additional structure, parapet wall, screening, safety
railing, or other appurtenance associated with the commercial drone delivery
hub is subject to the maximum height requirement of the district.
      F.   Proximity to Noise-Sensitive Uses:
         1.   The drone staging area for a commercial drone delivery hub
(small) shall not be located within one hundred fifty (150) feet of any
property upon which a dwelling, nursing and residential care facility, or
public park is located.
         2.   The drone staging area for a commercial drone delivery hub
(large) shall not be located within three hundred (300) feet of any property
upon which a dwelling, nursing and residential care facility, or public park is
located. The three hundred (300) foot buffer requirement may be reduced to one
hundred fifty (150) feet if City Council finds that issuance of the special use
permit would not be detrimental or injurious to the public health, safety, or
general welfare of the neighborhood.
         3.   The measurement of the required buffer is to be made in a
straight horizontal line from the edge of the drone staging area to the closest
property line of a property containing a dwelling, nursing and residential care
facility, or public park.
   (4)   Parking and Loading:
      A.   Parking is not required for an accessory commercial drone delivery
hub use.
      B.   Off-street parking for commercial drone delivery hubs (small) and
(large) shall be provided as follows:
         1.   One space per 1,000 square feet of floor area for storage or
warehousing; plus
         2.   One space per 300 square feet of floor area for office, customer
service or other areas; plus
         3.   A minimum of one parking space per 300 square feet of the
designated drone staging area is required for commercial drone deliver hubs
with no buildings.
   (5)   Registration and Restrictions:
      A.   Anyone flying or operating a drone, regardless of the drone’s weight
shall register their drone with the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA).
      B.   Drones shall not be operated in a way that would cause damage to
people or property, nor shall drones be used for the purpose of capturing a
person’s visual image, audio recording, or other physical impression in any
place where the person would have a reasonable expectation of privacy.
      C.   No person or entity shall operate a drone in violation of Idaho Code
21-213. (Ord. 3670, 4-21-2025)
10-12-03-18 ELEVATED PEDESTRIAN WALKWAYS:
   (1)   Elevated pedestrian walkways (i.e. skyways), including those over
public rights-of-way, may be located in any required yard or setback area
provided they do not create a visual obstruction for motor vehicle traffic and
have all other governmental approvals for its location over a public right-of-
way.
   (2)   General Standards:
      A.   The pedestrian walkway/skyway shall be designed by a Professionally
Licensed Engineer at a minimum height of seventeen (17) feet above the street,
alley, or other rights-of-way:
         1.   Skyways over alleyways will be required to seek approval from
Republic Services where trash is collected within said alleyway;
         2.   Additional height restrictions may apply due to street
classification, required utility maintenance, or other unforeseen circumstances
and all skyway designs will be subject to approval of the City Engineer;
         3.   Height reductions over private property or locations where
roadways are not existing, or master planned, may be granted by the City
Engineer;
         4.   The height clearance of the skyway over any roadway shall be
clearly posted for all vehicular traffic.
      B.   Skyways shall be privately owned and maintained, regardless of their
location, and will require an Encroachment Easement and Agreement with the City
of Caldwell prior to receiving certificate of occupancy on the adjacent
building(s).
      C.   The skyway shall be a minimum of ten (10) feet wide and ADA
compliant.
      D.   At least fifty (50) percent of the exterior sidewalls of the skyway
shall be glazing but may include air flow/venting apparatus. (Ord. 3670, 4-21-
2025)
10-12-03-19 EQUIPMENT RENTAL, SALES, AND SERVICE:
   (1)   All repair activities shall be located within an enclosed structure or
completely out of view from a public right-of-way or adjacent property via site
obscuring fencing of a minimum height of six (6) feet and a maximum height of
eight (8) feet, consistent with the screening standards of
10-02-09.
   (2)   Equipment display areas are prohibited within any required landscape
buffers.
   (3)   An all-weather, concrete or asphalt surface is required in all outdoor
areas where customers or employees regularly utilize the space for vehicular
circulation. The surface shall comply with all Engineering and Fire
requirements.
   (4)   Ancillary to a building material business/hardware store, or similar,
display of for rent or for sale equipment may be permitted as noted in
10-12-03 (Outdoor Storage) of this section. (Ord. 3670, 4-21-2025)
10-12-03-20 ESTABLISHMENTS SERVING ALCOHOL:
   All facilities serving liquor, beer or wine shall comply with the following:
   (1)   The facility shall comply with all Idaho Code regulations regarding
the sale, manufacturing, or distribution of alcoholic beverages.
   (2)   The establishment shall not be located within platted residential
subdivision or within three hundred feet (300') of any public or private school
(K-12), church, or any other place of worship, measured in a straight line from
the nearest property line to the drinking establishment property line, except
with the approval of a Special Use Permit by the City Council. This limitation
shall not apply to any duly licensed premises that at the time of licensing did
not come within the restricted area.
   (3)   For establishments abutting a residential district, no outside
activity or event shall be allowed on the site, except as provided for in
“Temporary Uses” of this section. Through the Special Use Permit process, this
standard may be modified.
   (4)   The special use permit shall specify the hours of operation, the type
of drinking establishment (bar, brewery, lounge, nightclub, saloon, pool hall,
or tavern), a floor plan identifying seating and major activity areas, and the
entertainment provided, if any. The Director or their designee shall determine
if a new Special Use Permit is required when a measurable change in the use,
including, but not limited to, hours of operation, size, capacity, type of
drinking establishment, or entertainment, occurs. (Ord. 3670, 4-21-2025)
10-12-03-21 FLEX SPACE:
   (1)   Office, retail, or other non-industrial uses shall comprise a minimum
of 25% of the structure and/or tenant space. If office, retail, or other non-
industrial uses comprise more than 80% of the structure, it shall not be
considered as Flex Space and instead shall be classified by the individual uses
proposed.
   (2)   Only Industry - Light Manufacturing, Industry - Medium Manufacturing,
Industry - Craftsman/Artisan, and Cottage Industries are the permitted
industrial uses allowed in Fles Space buildings.
   (3)   Uses that are not the retail or office component shall not comprise
more than 75% of the structure and/or tenant space.
   (4)   Roll-up doors and loading docks shall not be visible from a public
right-of-way, except for within the Industrial zoning districts. If this
standard cannot be complied with due to site constraints, additional screening
methods may be approved to satisfy this requirement. Roll-up doors with 50% or
more glazing are exempt from this standard. (Ord. 3670, 4-21-2025)
10-12-03-22 HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in a “home occupation”
as defined in section
10-01-10 of this chapter, within the City, without first having received a home
occupation permit issued by the City Planning and Zoning Department.
   (2)   Application for a home occupation permit shall be in writing, signed
to and sworn by the resident and the property owner, upon application forms
furnished by the City Planning and Zoning office.
   (3)   The initial permit fee imposed and collected shall be as set by City
Council. A home occupation permit shall not be transferable from one individual
or property owner to another nor shall said permit be transferable from one
site to another but shall be valid only for the site to which it was issued and
the individual to whom it was issued. In the event of a change of site or
change of individual, application for a new home occupation permit shall be
required.
   (4)   Home occupation permit applications shall meet all of the following
home occupation standards to be considered eligible for approval of issuance of
a home occupation permit:
      A.   The home occupation is clearly incidental and secondary to the use
of the dwelling.
      B.   The home occupation is conducted within the dwelling and is carried
on by the inhabitants of the dwelling. The inhabitants of the dwelling do not
need to be the dwelling owners, but they must be occupying the dwelling. There
may be one individual (paid or unpaid) allowed to participate in the operations
of the home occupation, along with the dwelling inhabitant(s), who is not an
inhabitant of the dwelling. No one else outside of the dwelling unit shall be
allowed to participate in the operations of the home occupation other than the
one individual described above.
      C.   No article shall be sold or offered for sale on the premises or
property, except such as is produced by the inhabitant of the dwelling. Any
illegal articles or goods sold or offered for sale on the premises such as
stolen property or any form of contraband shall be strictly prohibited.
      D.   The home occupation shall not change the character of the dwelling
or adversely affect the uses permitted in the zoning districts. No activity
shall indicate from the exterior that the dwelling is being used in whole or in
part for any purpose other than that of a dwelling. This includes any on-street
parking by any individual other than a current resident of the subject home as
a result of the home occupation. No more than one home occupation is permitted
per dwelling.
         1.   The delivery of supplies and loading or unloading of vehicles,
pertinent to the home occupation, shall not take place between the hours of
five o’clock (5:00) P.M. and eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. The only exception is in
the case of family/group daycare homes, preschools and daycare centers where
children may be dropped off or picked up at any hour of the day or night.
      E.   The home occupation does not and shall not utilize any on street
parking.
      F.   Not more than one-fourth (1/4) of the gross area of the dwelling
shall be used, as a whole, for all home occupations contained within the
dwelling, with the following stipulations:
         1.   Garages, whether detached or attached, shall not be included in
the calculation of the gross area of the main floor, they shall not count as
the one-fourth (1/4) area that may be used for the home occupation.
         2.   Bathrooms, hallways, and kitchens shall be included in the
calculation of the gross area of the main floor of the dwelling and may be used
by the home occupation. However, the use of bathrooms, hallways, and kitchens
by the home occupation shall not count toward or against the one-fourth (1/4)
allowed, usable gross area of the main floor.
      G.   All parking resulting from the operation of the home occupation
shall be located on site of the dwelling in a designated parking area, such as
a driveway; not on the public street or public street right-of-way or in the
front yard or front yard setback area.
      H.   A nameplate sign that complies with section
10-02-06 of this article is permitted when attached to the dwelling.
      I.   Garages and/or accessory buildings may be occupied by a home
occupation if they meet the following standards:
         1.   No more than fifty percent (50%) of the total gross area of the
garage may be utilized for the home occupation.
         2.   No more than two hundred (200) square feet of total area of
accessory structure(s) may be utilized for the home occupation.
      J.   Hazardous materials shall not be stored in any quantity exceeding a
one-day supply and shall comply with International Fire and Building Codes for
residential occupancy.
      K.   There shall be no commodities sold, or services rendered, that
require receipt and delivery of merchandise, goods, or equipment by anything
other than a passenger vehicle or mail delivery vehicles.
      L.   There shall be no outdoor display of goods or outside storage of
equipment or materials used in the home occupation.
      M.   Dimensions, power rating, or weight of equipment and tools used in
the conduct of the home occupation shall not exceed that of normal household
equipment and tools.
      N.   At the discretion of the Director, the applicant may be subject to a
scheduled inspection by the Planning and Zoning Department to verify compliance
with requirements in this chapter, and the applicant shall pass said
inspection, prior to issuance of a home occupation permit. All applicable codes
must be met to obtain a home occupation permit.
      O.   Applications may be withdrawn by the applicant at any time during
the process. A fifty percent (50%) refund of only the application fee shall be
issued and only for applications withdrawn within ten (10) days of submittal.
   (5)   A home occupation permit may be subject to scheduled or unscheduled
random inspections at any time for compliance with all federal, state, and city
codes and regulations. A home occupation permit shall be revoked at any time by
the Director or his/her authorized designee if it is determined that any
condition of the home occupation or any other city laws, ordinances, or
statutes are being violated.
      Prior to any revocation, the applicant shall be afforded thirty (30) days
after the date of notification of noncompliance to become compliant.
Additionally, prior to any revocation, the applicant shall be afforded an
opportunity for a public hearing before the council to be conducted as per the
process outlined in subsection
10-03-03(2) of this chapter; said hearing must be requested within seven (7)
days of receipt of a notice of intent to revoke a home occupation permit.
Failure to come into compliance within thirty (30) days of the notification of
noncompliance and failure to request such a hearing, as described above, will
result in immediate revocation of the home occupation permit.
   (6)   In cases of violations of subsection (4)C of this section which
prohibits any illegal articles or goods to be sold or offered for sale on the
property such as stolen property or contraband, and/or where the person(s) has
had revocation of a home occupation permit initiated based on a violation of
subsection (4)C of this section, the city council may, at the request of the
chief of police, invoke a civil penalty of up to two thousand dollars
($2,000.00); provided, the person(s) being assessed is given a hearing before
the council concerning the facts of the case. Any fines derived from these
penalties will be placed in a dedicated fund to be used to fund drug prevention
programs. (Ord. 3670, 4-21-2025)
10-12-03-23 INDUSTRY - INFORMATION / DATA CENTERS:
   (1)   The following adverse effects shall be mitigated through setbacks,
buffers, sound attenuation and/or hours of operation:
      A.   Noise, odor, or vibrations detectable by the human senses without
the aid of instruments.
      B.   Radioactivity and electric or electromagnetic disturbances which
unduly interfere with the normal operation of equipment, instruments, or
appliances on abutting properties.
      C.   Any other emission or radiation which endangers human health,
results in damages to vegetation or property, or which exceed health and safety
standards.
      D.   In the event the Director determines that the applicant cannot
adequately address such impacts, the use shall be subject to a Special Use
Permit.
   (2)   Application materials shall depict compliance with any applicable
federal, state, or local standards regarding such use, including, but not
limited to, those of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the U.S.
Department of Agriculture, Southwest District Health Department, and Idaho
Department of Water Resources. (Ord. 3670, 4-21-2025)
10-12-03-24 MANUFACTURED HOME COMMUNITIES AND DEVELOPMENTS:
   (1)   Purpose and Intent: The standards set forth in this Article are
intended to provide the opportunity for affordable, single-family manufactured
homes to be located within safe, well-planned rental or land-lease
environments. A housing development that remains under the ownership of one
individual, corporation, or business should be designed and maintained in such
a manner that ensures that adequate open space for each home and family is
provided, that appropriate infrastructure improvements are installed and
adequately maintained, and that the development is compatible with the
character of surrounding residential neighborhoods.
   (2)   Permits Required:
      A.   Singular manufactured homes, defined as “Dwelling - Manufactured
Home” in
10-01-10 of this chapter, are permitted as outlined in the land use schedules
of this chapter, and shall be subject to the requirements of a single-family
dwelling located in the underlying zone.
      B.   Manufactured Home Development, as defined in
10-01-10 as “Manufactured Home Community / Development” may be permitted
through the Special Use Permit process (outlined in
10-03-04) as a Manufactured Home Development Application. This shall be allowed
in specific zoning districts as depicted in the land use schedules of this
chapter and shall adhere to the standards below and not the Multi-family
Development code of
10-14.
      C.   If a subdivision is proposed and includes manufactured homes, as
defined, the development shall comply with all standard subdivision, land use,
dimensional standards, landscape, etc. regulations outlined in
Chapter 10 and
Chapter 11 of Caldwell City Code.
   (3)   Application Requirements: Application materials shall be required as
defined on the applicable Special Use Permit checklist and Manufactured Home
Development checklist.
   (4)   General Development Standards:
      A.   Manufactured home communities and developments, unless otherwise
approved as a Planned Unit Development, shall be served by public street(s),
street lighting, and utility systems (water, sewer, irrigation, stormwater,
etc.) that have been designed and constructed to the requirements of the City
of Caldwell Engineering Department requirements as outlined in
Chapter 11 of the Caldwell City Code.
      B.   Manufactured homes shall be installed on a foundation; the axles,
wheels and hitch of the home shall be removed. The foundation shall be
constructed and installed under the manufacturer’s requirements, or under the
requirements of Idaho Code, title 44, chapter 22, Manufactured Home Setup Code,
subsection 44-2205, Requirements for Foundations.
      C.   Space (lot) Size Requirement and Recreation Areas:
         1.   No recreation area is required if minimum lot sizes meet the
following: Six thousand (6,000) square foot space for multi-sectional homes and
five thousand (5,000) square foot space for single- sectional homes.
         2.   If a minimum of ten percent (10%) of the gross area of the
development site is provided for recreation, then the following minimum lot
sizes are permitted: Four thousand (4,000) square foot minimum space with an
average of five thousand (5,000) square foot space overall. Recreational areas
may include space for community buildings, gardens, outdoor play areas, ball
courts, walking/biking paths, etc.
      D.   Dimensional Standards Table (in feet):
 
Minimum Street Front Setback Rear Setback Interior Side Street Side Setback
Frontage                                  Setback
0'             20'           10'          10'           15'
 
      E.   Off-street parking for each manufactured home is required and shall
be a minimum of two (2) parking spaces on each space/lot and at least one space
shall be enclosed in a garage with minimum dimensions of ten feet (10') by
twenty feet (20') for each space.
      F.   Minimum five (5) foot wide sidewalks shall be installed along both
sides of the internal streets.
      G.   Landscaping shall comply with the standards as set forth in
10-02-09 for subdivisions except that the amount of open space required shall
comply with standard (4)C above.
      H.   Accessory structures shall comply with the standards as set forth in
10-12-03-1.
      I.   The manufactured home shall have exterior siding and roofing which
in color, material, and appearance is similar to the exterior siding and
roofing material commonly used on residential dwellings within the community or
which is comparable to the predominant materials used on surrounding dwellings,
as determined by the Director.
      J.   Manufactured Homes are not recreational vehicles or trailers, as
defined in
10-01-10.
      K.   Deeds Required: Infrastructure improvements installed to City design
and construction standards, and intended for dedication to the City, shall
require the preparation and recordation of a right-of-way deed and/or utility
deed for each phase of the development at the time of submitting construction
plans. A copy of each deed shall be submitted to the City Engineer and Director
over Planning and Zoning and shall be made a part of the case file.
      L.   Significance of Approval: Approval of the manufactured home
development permits the developer to prepare construction plans and to submit
them to the City Engineer for approval. Construction activity shall not
commence until the City Engineer, and any other applicable review agency, has
approved the plans. Construction plans for each phase shall require approval
from the City Engineer, and other applicable agencies having review authority.
A copy of written approvals shall be submitted by the developer to the Director
who shall include such approvals in the case file.
      M.   As-Built Approvals: Prior to a building permit being applied for and
issued for any manufactured home space within each phase of the development,
the developer shall submit written verification that the City Engineer has
approved installation of improvement construction.
      N.   Planned Unit Development (PUD): Nothing herein shall exclude a
manufactured home community or development from being applied for as a PUD.
         A PUD designed for manufactured homes only, or a mixture of
manufactured homes, site-built homes, and other uses on rental or leased space
is intended to enable the applicant to reduce the square footage requirement
for individual lots and to incorporate that same square footage into open space
and/or common areas for use by all residents and/or users of the development.
It is also intended to encourage imaginative and unique design proposals that
may be geared more toward a gated, private community that is essentially
independent and contained.
         It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to provide sufficient
information that the PUD proposal conforms to the goals and policies of the
adopted Comprehensive Plan, will be a benefit to the public, and will not
adversely affect the public interest. The streets, whether proposed as private
or public, and water/sewer systems, shall be designed and constructed to the
same standards required under subsection (4)A of this section, except the
requirement for the roadway, if proposed as private, may be designed at a
lesser width if approved by the Caldwell Engineering Department. (Ord. 3670, 4-
21-2025)
10-12-03-25 MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS:
   (1)   For the purposes of this section, the uses subject to the regulations
below shall be “Mixed Use - Small Scale” and “Mixed Use - Large Scale”, as
defined in
10-01-10.
      A.   Allows for one or more dwelling units located on the upper floors
with nonresidential uses on the lower and ground floors.
      B.   All nonresidential uses located within a Mixed Use building shall be
permitted or specially permitted uses; if a specially permitted use is
proposed, a separate Special Use Permit is required.
      C.   Within individual Mixed Use buildings, the ground floor shall be
comprised of nonresidential uses; residential units are not permitted on the
first floor.
      D.   Residential uses are prohibited along all arterial roadways and
highway frontages within the Mixed-Use or Community Center place types, as
designated on the Future Land Use Map, unless part of a Mixed-Use Small-Scale
or Mixed-Use Large-Scale building.
         1.   In all cases, residential uses shall not exceed 40% of the
overall cumulative square footage of building footprints.
      E.   All dimensional standards including setbacks, building height,
landscaping, minimum parking, etc. shall be maintained for the underlying
zoning district unless deviations are approved through the appropriate process.
(Ord. 3670, 4-21-2025)
10-12-03-26 MOBILE FOOD UNITS AND MOBILE FOOD UNIT PARKS:
   (1)   Mobile Food Units:
      A.   Type. Mobile Food Units (MFUs) shall include, but not be limited to,
a vehicle or a readily movable/portable structure (e.g., taco trucks, BBQ
grills/ranges on trailers, vendor carts, lunch wagons, and other mobile food
vendors that are on wheels or on a trailer / portable structure with wheels)
used solely for the purpose of the preparation and sale of food and/or
beverages.
         1.   When more than one (1) MFU is located on a singular lot, parcel,
or project site, it shall be considered a Mobile Food Unit Park and subject to
all specific use provisions as outlined below in subsection (2).
      B.   Locations allowed. MFUs are permitted as listed in the applicable
land use schedule of this Chapter (Chapter 10). They are prohibited from
locating on properties in any of the following locations:
         1.   In any location where the city has reasonable grounds to believe
that establishment and/or operation of the proposed temporary use would violate
land use entitlement or recorded development agreement conditions of any parcel
of land.
      C.   Hours of Operation and Duration: MFU hours of operation shall be as
follows:
         1.   MFUs may operate between the hours of 6:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.;
         2.   MFUs are not subject to the six (6) month time limitation
applicable to temporary uses, and may operate from a permanent or semi-
permanent location, so long as they remain in compliance with applicable
requirements and the standards contained herein, including the maintenance and/
or renewal of a valid Certificate of Compliance (Mobile Food Unit permit)
yearly (every 365 days) in order to lawfully sell food or other consumable
commodities within the City.
         3.   Individual MFUs are prohibited from being used/set up as
permanent (or effectually permanent) diners, eateries, restaurants, etc., nor
feature outdoor facilities for dining purposes in any location in the city
unless established as part of a Mobile Food Unit Park (outlined in subsection 2
below). Outdoor “eateries” or facilities are considered to be any business
using seating, tables or some kind and/or some form of shelter (e.g.,
umbrellas, tents, canopy) to provide a place to sit and eat outside that are
not removed at the end of each business day.
      D.   General Standards. The following land use regulations shall govern
all MFUs:
         1.   MFUs are required to have a Mobile Food Unit permit in order to
lawfully operate within the City of Caldwell.
         2.   A current and valid copy of the Southwest District Health (SWDH)
department permit shall be submitted in conjunction with any application for a
Mobile Food Unit permit and must be maintained and displayed on or in the
vendor’s vehicle in plain public view when open for business.
         3.   No structure shall exceed twelve feet (12') in height.
         4.   No structure shall exceed thirty feet (30') in length.
         5.   No structure shall exceed nine feet (9') in width.
         6.   No MFU shall consist of more than one cart, stall, booth, tent,
platform, box, table, rack, pallet, container, trailer, recreational vehicle,
motor vehicle, or any other form of offering, displaying, or storing goods and/
or services, per vendor.
         7.   No MFU shall be allowed to be placed or parked in a required
vision triangle, a location blocking legal ingress/egress to or from a lot/
parcel, any pedestrian way, a location blocking access to a trash dumpster, too
close to a fire hydrant, adjacent to a section of curb painted and designated
as reserved for fire department use, or in a position that obscures a city
traffic regulation sign.
         8.   When conducted from a temporary structure, food preparation shall
not entail any cooking process and/or equipment that generate(s) grease laden
vapors unless the Caldwell Fire Department inspects and certifies that the
proposed cooking “setup” meets applicable requirements of the most current
edition of the National Fire Protection Association regulations they enforce.
“Grease laden vapors” are vapors containing rendered animal fat, vegetable
shortening, and other such oily matter used for the purposes of and resulting
from cooking and/or preparing foods.
         9.   MFUs shall not be allowed to be placed or parked within or
overhanging a public right-of-way or easement.
            (A)    Except, MFUs that are vendor carts may apply for a right-of-
way permit with the City of Caldwell Engineering department to sanction their
use if/when they are proposed to be or are operated/stationed within public
right-of-way (e.g., on a sidewalk).
         10.   MFUs are subject to scheduled or unscheduled inspections at any
time by applicable City, State, or Federal agencies. MFUs who desire to leave
their specified location as identified on the issued certificate of compliance
and set up in a new location must notify the City Planning and Zoning
Department and provide written approval from the new location’s property owner
prior to their relocation.
            (A)   MFUs are allowed certificates of compliance for multiple
sites at one time, provided a schedule of locations and times is submitted to
the Planning and Zoning Department to be kept on file with the MFU application.
   (2)   Mobile Food Unit Parks, General Standards:
      A.   Mobile Food Unit Parks shall obtain approval of an Administrative
Development Site Plan and Landscape Plan Review application prior to commencing
said use. If a Special Use Permit (SUP) is required per an applicable land use
schedule, the SUP shall be obtained prior to the Administrative Development
Site Plan and Landscape Plan Review application-approval of the SUP does not
negate the requirement of obtaining the Administrative Development Site Plan
and Landscape Plan Review application approval prior to commencement of this
use.
      B.   All individual Mobile Food Units (MFUs) within a Mobile Food Unit
Park shall adhere to the regulations outlined in subsection (1) above and shall
obtain an individual Mobile Food Unit Permit, unless specifically noted
otherwise within this subsection.
      C.   Mobile Food Unit Parks shall be maintained and remain in compliance
with all applicable city, county, state, and federal regulations, including,
without limitation, landscaping, land use buffer, fire, building, electrical
codes, and health regulations, for the duration of the use.
      D.   No business located within the Mobile Food Unit Park shall engage in
the sale of weapons.
      E.   MFUs within Mobile Food Unit Parks shall not connect to any
electrical outlets or sources of power without having first received written
permission from the property owner on which said outlets or sources of power
are located.
      F.   Mobile Food Unit Parks shall be operated in a manner that does not
create excessive noise, light, dust, nuisance or other detriment to the
enjoyment of property in the vicinity beyond that which a standard restaurant
would create.
      G.   Individual MFU signage must be affixed to the MFU or located
immediately adjacent to the facility or unit on private property.
      H.   Operations shall be conducted only to pedestrians, drive-thru
services for Mobile Food Unit Parks is prohibited.
      I.   All Mobile Food Unit Parks shall provide fire prevention tools as
required by the Fire Department.
      J.   Allowable business hours for any Mobile Food Unit Park shall be
between the hours of eight o’clock (8:00) A.M. and two o’clock (2:00) A.M.
      K.   A Mobile Food Unit Park shall not be less than one hundred (100)
feet from another Mobile Food Unit Park.
      L.   Any alcohol beverage only MFUs shall only be permitted if there is
another MFU serving food during the same hours within the Mobile Food Unit
Park.
      M.   All Mobile Food Unit Parks shall provide the following minimum site
design items and shall be depicted on the approved site plan:
         1.   On-site Manager: There must be a designated manager of the site
that is responsible for the orderly organization of MFUs, the cleanliness of
the site, and the site’s compliance with all rules and regulations during
business hours.
         2.   Asphalt or concrete surfaces for each mobile food unit to be
located on;
         3.   Trash receptacles and regular trash service. The site plan shall
depict the location of the receptacles or method of trash disposal;
         4.   Semi-permanent seating area(s) for patrons of the mobile food
unit park with real or artificial turf;
         5.   A minimum of one (1) shaded area (via gazebo, shade tree, etc.);
         6.   Parking: A minimum of one and a half (1.5) off-street parking
spaces per Mobile Food Unit is required and shall consist of an improved,
asphalt or concrete surface.
         7.   Restrooms: At least one permanent restroom shall be located
within five-hundred (500) feet of each Mobile Food Unit and be made accessible
to the patrons while the Mobile Food Unit Park is open.
      N.   Mobile Food Unit Parks must provide a sanitary sewage treatment
plan. Wastewater may not be dumped or discharged on the premises, adjacent
properties, or public right-of-way. If the applicant proposes the use of any
sanitary sewage facilities located on private property, written permission from
the property owner must be obtained. (Ord. 3670, 4-21-2025)
10-12-03-27 MOBILE HOMES:
   (1)   Mobile Homes are subject to the definition in
10-01-10 of this chapter and the following general standards:
      A.   Mobile Homes do not meet the criteria for manufactured homes and are
not recreational vehicles or trailers, as defined in
10-01-10 of this chapter.
      B.   If approved through a Special Use Permit, Mobile Homes may be
permitted in any zone that permits residential uses unless otherwise restricted
by covenants or plat dedications.
      C.   Mobile Homes shall be subject to the same requirements as a single-
family dwelling located in the underlying zone unless a Variance has been
applied for and approved. (Ord. 3670, 4-21-2025)
10-12-03-28 MODULAR BUILDINGS:
   (1)   Modular Buildings shall not be considered Mobile Homes nor
Manufactured Homes, as separately defined in
10-01-10.
   (2)   Modular Buildings are only permitted as outlined in the applicable
land use schedules for this Chapter (Chapter 10).
   (3)   When accessory to an education facility, all modular buildings shall
be screened with landscaping from view of any public right-of-way or public
space to break up the massing of the modular structure and provide visual
relief from these public spaces.
   (4)   When utilized as a temporary structure, modular buildings shall comply
with all applicable zoning standards in this the Temporary Use section of this
article (
10-12-03).
   (5)   In all nonresidential zones and when a modular building becomes a
permanent structure that is compliant with all building codes (i.e. permanent
foundation, permanent utilities, etc.), landscaping and/or additional
architectural elements shall be installed along the foundation of the building
to add pedestrian level fenestration and visual aesthetics to the building/
site. (Ord. 3670, 4-21-2025)
10-12-03-29 OUTDOOR STORAGE (ACCESSORY):
   (1)   The site shall not be used as “Automotive - wrecking or junk yard,” as
defined in
10-01-10.
   (2)   All outdoor storage shall be maintained in an orderly manner so as not
to create a public nuisance. Materials shall not be stored within any
easements, required setbacks, pedestrian ways, public right of way, and/or
future public right of way.
   (3)   Outdoor storage shall be incorporated into the overall design of
buildings and landscaping so that the visual and acoustic impacts of these
functions are fully contained.
   (4)   Accessory outdoor storage may be located in non-residential zones
(except in the Downtown zoning districts) if the following standards are met:
      A.   The outdoor storage shall be screened from view of any adjacent
nonindustrial zone or use, public spaces, public streets, and/or the interstate
by a solid fence and/or wall with a minimum height of six (6) feet and a
maximum height of eight (8) feet.
      B.   If utilizing a storage shed, the shed shall not impede any vehicular
circulation route; and
      C.   The shed shall be the same primary color as the primary structure.
   (5)   For industrial properties adjacent to other industrial properties and
not visible from a public street or the interstate, outdoor storage areas may
be screened with chainlink fencing with slats.
   (6)   An all-weather, concrete or asphalt surface is required in all outdoor
storage areas where customers or employees regularly utilize the space for
vehicular circulation. The surface shall comply with all Engineering and Fire
requirements. Outdoor vehicle storage uses shall pave all drive aisles but may
utilize gravel or other approved permeable surfaces on the storage spaces
themselves.
   (7)   Outdoor storage of storage sheds ancillary to a hardware store or
other building material business, for display or retail purposes, may be
located in a parking area but shall not reduce the number of available parking
spaces below minimum code requirements, shall not impede any other vehicle use
area, shall not block or impede any pedestrian way, and shall not be located
within fifty (50) feet of any property line.
   (8)   Outdoor storage areas for materials, general gardening equipment and
supplies, (excluding growing plants in the ground or in containers), and
mechanical equipment shall be located a minimum of fifty (50) feet from any
residential district or use.
   (9)   Outdoor storage of items for sale shall adhere to all other applicable
specific use provisions (i.e. Retail Sales - Sales Lots). (Ord. 3670, 4-21-
2025)
10-12-03-30 RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (RV) PARKS:
   (1)   Purpose and Intent: This Article establishes minimum standards and
requirements for the construction and occupation of recreational vehicle parks,
especially as they relate to adjacent land uses and to the development of the
whole community, in order to protect and secure the public health, safety, and
general welfare of the City of Caldwell.
   (2)   Required Permits:
      A.   Prior to establishment or operation of a recreational vehicle park
in the city, a special use permit must be obtained as set forth in the
applicable land use schedule for the underlying zoning district and in
compliance with section
10-03-04 of this Chapter. The application for such permit shall be filed with
the Community Development Department and shall be accompanied by a fee as set
by City Council.
      B.   A special use permit to install a recreational vehicle park shall
not be construed as a substitution for the regularly required permits for
building, plumbing, electrical or gas installation work.
      C.   Other Permits Required: Building permits shall be required for
inspections made of all buildings within the park. The park shall be inspected
by the Building Inspector during and after completion of construction of the
park and a permit will be required for this inspection. Plumbing and electrical
permits shall be obtained prior to construction of those facilities and
inspections of the systems and of the individual installations will be made by
City-designated inspectors.
   (3)   Authority: The Planning and Zoning Commission or the Hearing Examiner
shall have authority to vary any of the provisions of this Article when there
are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in carrying out the strict
letter of this Article.
   (4)   Site Standards:
      A.   The recreational vehicle park shall be located on a well-drained
site and shall be so located that its drainage will not endanger any water
supply or adjacent properties.
      B.   With any RV Park submittal, a site plan and landscape plan shall be
required that depicts the following at a minimum: boundaries and area of the RV
park, connections to existing roadways, internal drive aisles, location and
size of vehicle spaces, standard parking stalls, any existing buildings and
whether they are to be demolished or shall remain, location and size of public
utilities, required and proposed landscaping, and any setbacks.
      C.   The area of the recreational vehicle park shall be large enough to
accommodate the designated number of spaces, necessary streets and roadways,
parking areas for motor vehicles and service areas, and playgrounds.
      D.   Each recreational vehicle space shall contain a minimum of one
thousand two hundred and fifty (1,250) square feet, shall be at least twenty-
five feet (25') wide and shall take access from an internal drive aisle. Such
spaces shall be clearly defined and marked on each corner with permanent
markers. Recreational vehicles spaces shall be designed so that there will be a
minimum of fifteen (15) feet between vehicles and so that no vehicle will be
less than ten (10) feet from the exterior boundary of the park.
      E.   The minimum fifteen (15) feet of separation between vehicles shall
include vegetative groundcover to allow for drainage and a grassy area for each
space. At least two hundred and fifty (250) square feet of this area shall be
dedicated to vegetative groundcover; the remaining area may be a hardscape
surface for other recreational purposes or off-street parking.
      F.   No recreational vehicle shall park in a way that will obstruct any
roadway or walkway.
      G.   No recreational vehicle shall be allowed to remain in a park unless
a space is available.
      H.   Access roads/drive aisles shall be provided to each recreational
vehicle space. Each drive aisle shall be continuous through the site, shall
connect with a public right-of-way for property access, and shall have a
minimum width of twenty-five (25) feet. No recreational vehicle space shall
have direct frontage on any public street.
      I.   Areas shall be provided for the parking of passenger motor vehicles.
Such areas shall accommodate at least the number of vehicles equal to the
number of recreational vehicle spaces provided. Areas for these spaces may be
located within the recreational vehicle space or in a separate off-street
parking area.
      J.   Perimeter landscape buffers, a minimum of ten (10) feet in width,
are required along the entire boundary. Street landscaping buffers required in
10-02-09, may count towards this requirement. Perimeter landscape buffers shall
be landscaped in accordance with the nonresidential land use buffer code in
10-02-09.
   (5)   General Requirements:
      A.   Recreational Areas: At least one hundred (100) square feet of common
recreational area per recreational vehicle shall be required. Said recreation
area shall be landscaped and maintained in a dust-free condition.
      B.   Storage Areas: Each park may provide at least one hundred (100)
square feet of storage area per travel trailer site for the storage of boats,
boat trailers, utility trailers and extra vehicles.
      C.   Service Buildings: Service buildings housing sanitation and laundry
facilities shall be permanent structures complying with all applicable City and
State ordinances and statutes regulating buildings, electrical, and plumbing
installations and sanitation systems.
      D.   Driveways: Entrance driveways shall meet any applicable access and
offset the requirements of the applicable agency. At a minimum, an entrance
driveway shall be located no closer than one hundred fifty (150) feet from any
intersection of public streets.
      E.   Secondary Emergency Access: All RV Parks shall also have secondary
emergency access a minimum of twenty feet (20') in width. In cases where the
entrance driveway is divided by a median planting strip, the minimum width
shall be fifty feet (50').
      F.   Density: The number of recreational vehicle sites shall not exceed
twenty-two (22) per acre for the net area of the park.
      G.   Water Supply:
         1.   An accessible, adequate, safe, and potable supply of water shall
be furnished in each recreational vehicle park capable of furnishing a minimum
of five (5) gallons per minute per recreational vehicle space.
         2.   All water piping shall be constructed and maintained in
accordance with the State of Idaho regulations for public drinking water
systems.
         3.   Fees for connecting to the city water system will be charged in
accordance with the waterline extension policy and service costs established by
the resolution of the city council.
      H.   Plumbing: All plumbing in the recreational vehicle park shall
connect to the public sewer system and shall comply with the plumbing code (See
section
12-05 of this code). All sewage disposal apparatuses, including appurtenances
thereto, shall be provided, maintained, and operated to not create a nuisance
or health hazard. Sewer connection fees for each unit will be the same as for
mobile home parks.
      I.   Refuse Disposal: The storage, collection, and disposal of refuse in
the park shall be so managed as to create no health hazards, rodent harborage,
insect breeding area, accident hazards, or air pollution. All refuse shall be
stored in flytight, watertight, rodentproof containers which shall be provided
in sufficient number and capacity to prevent any refuse from overflowing.
Satisfactory container racks or holders shall be provided and shall be located
no more than one hundred fifty feet (150') from any recreational vehicle space.
      J.   Insect And Rodent Control: Insect control and rodent control
measures to safeguard public health, as recommended by the Southwest District
Health Department, shall be applied in the recreational vehicle park.
      K.   Electricity: The electrical and lighting system and installation of
outlets to serve each mobile home shall comply with provisions of the national
electrical code (See section
12-07 of this code).
      L.   Fire Protection: The recreational vehicle park shall comply with all
uniform fire code regulations and any other requirements of the Caldwell Fire
Department deemed necessary for the safe operation of the recreational vehicle
park.
   (6)   Inspection of Premises: Properly constituted enforcement
representatives shall have the power to enter, at reasonable times and upon
proper notification to the manager, the premises of said park for the purpose
of inspecting and investigating conditions relating to the enforcement of this
Article, or of regulations promulgated thereunder. Enforcement of this Article
shall be vested in the Chief of Police of the City upon written complaints made
by the Building Inspector, Community Development Director, Fire Chief,
Southwest District Health Department Inspector or any of their designated
representatives. (Ord. 3670, 4-21-2025)
10-12-03-31 RETAIL SALES - SALES LOTS (NEW AND USED):
   (1)   General Requirements for outdoor sales lots such as motor vehicle,
marine, farm implement, recreational vehicles, manufactured homes, storage
sheds, and similar items are regulated by this section as follows:
      A.   There shall be no strings of flags, pennants, or bare light bulbs
permitted.
      B.   An adequate on-site loading and unloading area shall be provided;
such area shall not impede vehicle circulation on the site or in an adjoining
right-of-way.
      C.   Areas of a lot designated for sales lots shall be set back a minimum
of twenty-five (25) feet from any adjacent residential zoning district.
      D.   No outdoor storage of parts, excess product, or other accessories
shall be visible from an adjacent residential use or public right-of-way.
      E.   Areas of a lot devoted to outdoor storage and bulk sales shall not
interfere with traffic circulation, required parking areas, sidewalks, or
pedestrian access.
   (2)   Specific Requirements:
      A.   Sales - New or Used Passenger Truck and Vehicles
         1.   Areas of a lot devoted to outdoor storage and bulk sales shall be
paved with asphalt or concrete and free of dust.
      B.   Sales - New or Used Manufactured Homes, Mobile Homes, Modular Homes,
and Tiny Homes:
         1.   No vehicles or merchandise for sale shall be displayed within any
required Landscape buffers.
         2.   Density. A minimum of 2,500 square feet of lot area shall be
required for each dwelling unit displayed for sale.
         3.   Dwelling units displayed for sale may not be placed in any
required setback or right-of-way.
         4.   Dwelling units displayed for sale must maintain a minimum ten
(10) foot setback on all sides from other units on display.
      C.   Sales - New or Used RV, Boat, ATV/UTV, Motorcycles, and Trailers:
         1.   No vehicles or merchandise for sale shall be displayed within any
required Landscape buffers unless approved through an Administrative
Determination. If approved to be placed in the required buffer, any display or
merchandise shall be a minimum of ten (10) feet behind any pedestrian walkway/
sidewalk.
         2.   Areas of a lot devoted to outdoor storage and bulk sales shall be
paved with asphalt or concrete and free of dust.
      D.   Sales - New or Used Farm Equipment, Greenhouses, and Storage Sheds:
         1.   Parking: If no business office is located on site, the minimum
number of parking spaces shall be no less than four (4) spaces per business on
site. The outdoor sales or display of merchandise shall not encroach into areas
of required parking, right-of-way, or any landscape buffer areas.
         2.   Paving: An all-weather, concrete or asphalt surface is required
in all outdoor storage areas where customers or employees regularly utilize the
space for vehicular circulation. The surface shall comply with all Engineering
and Fire requirements. Outdoor storage uses shall pave all drive aisles but may
utilize gravel or other permeable surfaces on the storage spaces themselves.
         3.   Screening: No more than five (5) storage sheds shall be openly
displayed for a sales lot that sells storage sheds; the remaining inventory
shall be screened from view of any adjacent nonindustrial zone or use, public
spaces, public streets, and/or the interstate by a solid fence and/or wall with
a minimum height of six (6) feet. (Ord. 3670, 4-21-2025)
10-12-03-32 SCHOOLS - PUBLIC:
   (1)   A public school and all accessory buildings, structures, and uses that
are associated with a school may be considered a permitted use in any
residential zoning district, any traditional neighborhood zoning district or
any highway corridor zoning district if the facility meets all of the following
terms and conditions:
      A.   A school shall not take primary access to or from a state highway; a
school’s primary access shall comply with all Caldwell Engineering requirements
and may be from any classified roadway or private drive.
      B.   A school and all accessory buildings, structures, and uses shall be
set back at least fifty feet (50') from all public rights of way and thirty
feet (30') from all side and rear yard property lines and shall not be built
in, on, or over any easements or public rights of way.
      C.   A school shall comply with off-street parking requirements listed in
section
10-02-05 of this article.
      D.   A school shall not be adjacent to an industrial use, industrial
zoning district, railroad, railroad yard, railroad tracks or railroad shops.
      E.   A school shall not be located any closer than one-half (1/2) mile
from a fire station.
      F.   A school shall not be located within the airport overlay-1 (APO-1)
zone.
      G.   A school shall comply with the international fire and building codes
and the city of Caldwell infrastructure policy.
      H.   A school shall not exceed the maximum building height restrictions
of the underlying zoning district.
   (2)   Any principal or accessory school building, structure, or use that
does not comply with the terms and conditions listed in subsection (1) of this
section shall be required to obtain a special use permit.
   (3)   This section shall apply whenever the following is requested: a
building permit for new construction; change in use; building addition,
alteration, or expansion; or building reconstruction.
   (4)   Newly constructed schools shall provide pedestrian and bicycle access/
connectivity points from a minimum of two (2) different places on its property
in the form of sidewalks and/or paved ten foot (10') wide pathways.
   (5)   Newly constructed schools shall provide an on-site circulation plan
for pedestrians and bicyclists that ensures that these users can safely access
the building from all directions and that the site is designed to minimize
conflicts between pedestrians/bicyclists and cars and buses. (Ord. 3670, 4-21-
2025)
10-12-03-33 SHOOTING RANGES (INDOOR AND OUTDOOR):
   (1)   Indoor Ranges:
      A.   No indoor shooting range shall be allowed within three hundred (300)
feet, measured from property line to property line, of a residential use or
district, daycare center, education institution, hospital, library, or nursing
or residential care facility.
      B.   Accessory uses including, but not limited to, retail, equipment
rental, and restaurants are allowed if designed to serve patrons of the use
only.
      C.   Applicant shall submit to the Planning and Zoning Department a sound
study prepared by a licensed sound engineer that demonstrates how the proposed
use will address the impact of noise on adjoining uses. Any adverse effects
found shall be mitigated through setbacks, buffers, sound mitigation, and/or
hours of operation.
   (2)   Outdoor Ranges:
      A.   Location Requirements:
         1.   Zoning Districts: Shooting ranges must be located in zoning
districts as designated in the applicable land use schedule, away from
residential areas and sensitive environments such as schools, parks, and
wildlife habitats.
         2.   Buffer Zones: A minimum buffer zone of 500 feet is required from
any property line of a residential use.
      B.   Site Plan Requirements:
         1.   A detailed site plan must be submitted, showing the required
buffer zone, the layout of shooting platforms, targets, backstops, safety
berms, other relevant structures, and topographical details to ensure proper
drainage and environmental protection.
      C.   Safety and Security Measures:
         1.   Fencing: The entire perimeter of the shooting range must be
enclosed with a security fence of eight (8) feet in height to prevent
unauthorized access.
         2.   Signage: Clear and visible signs must be posted around the
perimeter, indicating the presence of a shooting range and warning of potential
hazards.
      D.   Operational Standards:
         1.   Hours of Operation: Shooting ranges may operate between 8 AM and
sunset. Night shooting is prohibited unless specifically permitted through the
Special Use Permit process.
         2.   Noise Control: Measures must be taken to minimize noise impact on
surrounding areas, including the use of sound barriers and limiting the use of
high-caliber firearms.
         3.   Environmental Protection: Proper measures must be in place to
manage lead contamination and other environmental impacts.
      E.   Accessibility:
         1.   ADA Compliance: At least 5% of shooting positions must be
accessible to individuals with disabilities, with appropriate turning space and
access routes. (Ord. 3670, 4-21-2025)
10-12-03-34 TEMPORARY USES, TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, AND SPECIAL EVENTS:
   (1)   Purpose And Intent: The purpose of this section is to protect the
health, safety, and welfare of the city of Caldwell and its residents. This
section is not intended to prohibit or hamper speech, which is protected by the
first amendment, but merely to regulate specific activities which are
commercial in nature.
   (2)   Definitions: See Section
10-01-10 of this chapter.
   (3)   Applicability: All temporary uses as identified in this section shall
be subject to the terms, standards, regulations, and conditions of this section
as set forth herein. It shall be unlawful for any person or party to establish,
maintain, operate, or have a temporary use on property in the City of Caldwell
except in accordance and compliance with this section.
      A.   Any use that is operated from a trailer or other nonpermanent
structure, other than mobile food units, shall be considered a temporary use
and comply with this section.
      B.   Regulation(s), Exceptions, and Allowances. The provisions of this
section shall not apply to temporary uses including:
         1.   Uses that require Planning and Zoning Commission and/or City
Council approval if they are a principal or accessory use in that zoning
district.
         2.   Mobile Food Units as defined in
10-01-10 and regulated in
10-12-03-26 of this Article.
         3.   Traveling salespersons, commercial travelers or the like who
exclusively or primarily sell to or solicit orders for delivery, from local
retailers, local businesses, local governments, local schools, or local
wholesale firms.
         4.   The sale of farm or garden products at a farmers’ market event or
the operation of a farmers’ market itself.
         5.   The sale of newspaper subscription in which the seller is a
person engaged in both the delivery and sale of the newspaper.;
         6.   The occasional sale of admission by local school students to a
function of their school or fundraising sales by local service groups or clubs
such as Elks, Kiwanis, Lions, Rotary or Boy or Girl Scouts.
         7.   Any political group seeking funds or membership, conducting a
political rally, or election activity.
         8.   Garage, yard or similar sales lawfully conducted by individuals
at their residence or place of business (such sales are regulated in part by
this Code).
         9.   Private community center events. Such shall include craft and art
shows, meetings, exhibitions, and similar events.
         10.   Any activity conducted as a “special event” as sponsored and so
identified by the City of Caldwell.
         11.   Curbside lemonade stands(s) operated by persons under the age of
18 years in front of their own residence using a few chairs, a table, and
supplies.
         12.   Charitable/benefit car wash(es), bake and rummage sales, one-
time annual events on a single lot/parcel for no longer than seven days’
duration from said person as conducted only by churches, recognized 501(c)(3)
nonprofit organizations, service clubs, schools or ancillaries thereto for the
purpose of fundraising.
         13.   Idaho Youth Games.
         14.   Public events conducted at city parks.
         15.   Events conducted at Indian Creek Plaza, Wolf Field, O’Connor
Field House, Canyon County Fairgrounds, Simplot Stadium or other similar city
or county owned facility or event center, including equestrian events and
concerts.
         16.   Weddings and funeral ceremonies conducted at churches,
cemeteries, private facilities, and residences.
         17.   On premises sales of garden produce or any other product
cultivated on the site is exempt and falls under the land use definition of
“Farmstand - Persona”.
         18.   Any other similar temporary uses as to those specified above and
as approved or exempted by the director or his/her designee.
   (4)   Permits Required:
      A.   Temporary use permits; required.
         1.   No person shall engage in the temporary use of land or construct,
place, or set up a “temporary use”, as defined in
10-01-10, without first procuring a temporary use permit and certificate for
said use, unless otherwise noted in this section.
         2.   Application submittal. Any person seeking a temporary use permit
shall file a completed application, checklist, and all appropriate fees, with
Planning and Zoning on forms prescribed by the department, accompanied by such
data and information necessary to assure the fullest presentation of facts, as
determined by the Director. The Director shall have the authority to require
any additional information or data necessary to aid in understanding and
reviewing the request, which may include a request for a copy of a temporary
use vendor’s sales tax exemption number or certificate to verify legitimacy.
            (A)   Property owner permission: The written permission of and
indemnification by the property owner or owners on a form provided by the City
shall be required in order to operate a temporary use on property within the
City.
      B.   Temporary use permit approval: A temporary use permit approval and
certificate shall not exempt or otherwise excuse the applicant from complying
with all other applicable city, county, state, or federal regulations
pertaining to the type of activity the applicant will be conducting under such
certificate.
         1.   It shall be unlawful for any temporary use or sign to be placed
within a street, public right-of-way, vision triangle, required setback area,
dedicated trash dumpster location, sidewalk, public right-of-way, publicly
owned parking lot, any park or other property owned by the city or any other
public agency, street landscape buffer area, or any other position on a lot
which may substantially interfere with vehicle or pedestrian circulation,
emergency access or the normal functions of other uses on the property, or be
potentially hazardous to the public, unless otherwise allowed through the
approval of a right-of-way permit as noted in this section. Placement of any
and all facilities and signage associated with a temporary use must be on
private property, outside of any street landscape buffer areas, in any
commercial zone or industrial zone, unless otherwise noted herein.
         2.   All of the regulations set forth herein shall apply in the same
manner along a Parade Route during a city sanctioned parade, as at any other
time, including the prohibitions against placement of any temporary use, or
sign in the areas and locations described in the preceding paragraph.
   (5)   Temporary Use Standards:
      A.   Transient Merchants:
         1.   Transient merchants includes, but is not limited to any person
who engages in a temporary business of selling, trading, offering for sale or
trade, or displaying for the purpose of sale, trade, or giveaway any goods,
wares, merchandise, or services within City limits and who in the furtherance
of such purpose, hires, leases, uses or occupies any premises, including any
parking lot, within the City for the purposes of conducting said temporary
transient merchant business.
         2.   The proposed transient merchant use or facility shall be
commercial in nature.
         3.   Locations allowed. Transient merchants are permitted only on
commercial or industrial zoned property, and shall be prohibited from locating
on residentially zoned properties, properties within the D-CC, D-CB or T-
N Zone, and in any location where the city has reasonable grounds to believe
that establishment and/or operation of the proposed temporary use would have a
negative impact on the surrounding properties or neighborhoods.
         4.   Duration, frequency and hourly time limits. Time allotted to/for
transient merchant operation(s) shall be as follows:
            (A)   Shall not be allowed to locate on any given lot or parcel for
longer than seven (7) calendar days. A parcel of land shall be limited to a
maximum of four (4) such sales during any calendar year, with no sales
occurring within the previous thirty (30) calendar days; and
            (B)   Shall only operate between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 11:00
p.m. from an approved location; and
            (C)   No more than one transient merchant use may or shall be
established/allowed and operated from any given eligible lot/parcel at a time.
It shall be illegal for more than one transient merchant to locate on an
eligible lot/parcel at the same time;(This does not and shall not prevent a
lot/parcel from being host to an approved seasonal/holiday temporary use in
accordance with the regulations/allowanc0es established in this section for
such types of temporary uses.)
         5.   Use and operation regulations. The following land use regulations
shall govern all transient merchants.
            (A)   Transient merchants are required to have a temporary use
permit in order to lawfully operate within the City of Caldwell.
            (B)   No temporary use shall consist of more than one structure,
cart, table, trailer, motor vehicle, tent, or any other form of offering,
displaying, or storing goods and/or services, per vendor.
            (C)   No structure shall exceed twelve feet (12') in height.
            (D)   No structure shall exceed thirty feet (30') in length.
            (E)   No structure shall exceed nine feet (9') in width.
            (F)   Placement of a structure(s), merchandise, and/or vehicles
related to/part of a transient merchant use or operation, within a required
setback shall be prohibited unless specifically approved in writing by the
Director or his/her designee on a case-by-case basis where no peril to health,
safety or public welfare is foreseen or expected in connection with allowing
setback intrusion; and
            (G)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, no structure(s), merchandise,
or vehicle(s) related to/part of a transient merchant use or operation shall be
allowed to be placed or parked in a required vision triangle, in or blocking an
area of a service drive required to permit legal ingress into or egress from a
lot/parcel, over or blocking an ADA parking space, over or blocking a public
sidewalk, blocking access to a trash dumpster, too close to a fire hydrant,
adjacent a section of curb painted and designated as reserved for fire
department use, in a position to obscure a city traffic regulation sign, in or
overhanging a public right-of-way, or in or overhanging a public easement.
      B.   Fireworks Sales:
         1.   No person, without having a valid non-aerial common fireworks
permit issued pursuant to the Caldwell Fireworks Ordinance, shall offer for
sale; possess or store for the purpose of sale; sell; cause to be offered for
sale; cause to be possessed or stored for the purpose of sale; or cause to be
sold non-aerial common fireworks in any manner or for any use or purpose.
         2.   Application for a non-aerial common fireworks permit shall be
made to the City Clerk in accordance with
Chapter 8, Article 11 of Caldwell City Codes.
      C.   Job, Hiring and Construction Trailers/Shacks:
         1.   Locations allowed. On job sites including one (1) per subdivision
or development, or one (1) per commercial, institutional, mixed-use, or
industrially zoned construction site.
         2.   Duration and hourly time limits. Job, hiring and construction
trailers/shacks may be in use for a period of time as requested by the
applicant and agreed to by the planning director or his/her designee but not to
exceed a period of three hundred and sixty-five (365) calendar days unless an
extension to that time frame is granted by the city. (Complaints regarding the
operation of the use from neighbors shall serve as grounds to deny requests for
extensions).
         3.   Land use and operation regulations. The following land use
regulations shall govern all job, hiring and construction trailers/shacks:
            (A)   Shall only be those mobile units designated as “commercial
coaches” which bear the label of the State of Idaho Division of Public Safety.
This label shall designate the unit’s approval number, occupancy group
classification and construction type as specified in the International Building
Code (IBC);
            (B)   Shall only be placed on a property for which a building
permit has been issued against the same property; and
            (C)   Shall only be accessed by employees, potential employees,
customers, contractors, subcontractors, inspectors, builders, or developers
working directly with/on construction of site improvements being made on the
property where on the job, hiring and construction trailer/shack is placed.
      D.   Model Home - Sales and Leasing Office:
         1.   A temporary model home sales and leasing office is permitted
within a model home provided, the area for the sales and leasing office is
within a structure built as a house that will, at some point, be used as a
residence but is temporarily being used as a model home office with a temporary
occupancy permit only. The area used for the model home office shall be limited
to the garage only and it shall not exceed five hundred (500) square feet,
unless specifically stated otherwise in the application.
         2.   Locations allowed. Shall only be located on a lot or lots in a
residential subdivision to which they appertain assuming that said
subdivision’s covenants, conditions, and restrictions (CC&Rs) do not disallow
them.
         3.   Duration and hourly time limits. Model Home Sales and Leasing
Offices are permitted to operate from fifteen (15) days before homes are
offered for sale until fifteen (15) days after all homes or home sites within
the development are sold.
         4.   Use and Operation Regulations: The following land use regulations
shall govern all model home sales offices:
            (A)   Shall be exclusive to the subdivision within which they are
located, excepting however in those instances where the broker, contractor and
developer are the same company. They may, in such instances, serve as a
temporary office for the broker/contractor/developer (but still must be
removed/converted back into a home when the subdivision is finished).
            (B)   Shall serve for execution of real estate business only and
not for other commercial or retail transactions or uses including builders’ or
contractors’ offices.
            (C)   Shall provide/have two legal on-site parking spaces.
            (D)   Shall, in addition to the signage allowances prescribed by
this section be entitled to have one freestanding temporary sign no larger than
thirty-two (32) square feet in area and eight (8) feet in height.
            (E)   Shall not have outdoor display or storage of building
materials or fixtures unless the same is intended to allow for equipment and
material that are ancillary to the development under construction (which may be
one building lot/parcel up through a multiphase development with various lots
encompassed therein). In such cases where storage is present, then it shall not
be allowed in front of the sales office or trailer relative to the street and
shall be otherwise screened from view of the street and shall not be composed
of garbage, refuse, junk or salvaged materials.
            (F)   Homes so utilized shall maintain their original appearance
and shall be converted back into sellable residences when no longer in use as
sales office space.
      E.   Donation Containers / Storage Pods:
         1.   Applicability. This includes, but is not limited to, pods,
intermodal containers, trailer boxes, cvans/milvans, and large containers of
like type, form, construction, material and/or function.
         2.   Locations allowed:
            (A)   Shall not be located in front of a/the principal structure(s)
on the property on which the containers/pods are emplaced unless it is
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the director or his/her designee that there
is no other suitable location on the property to temporarily position the
container. For temporary containers/pods being used in conjunction with moving
into or out of a dwelling unit, the container/pod may be located in front of
the principal structure so long as it is in compliance with all other
provisions listed herein.
            (B)   Shall not be allowed to be placed on any paved street unless
parking is allowed along that street already by code, and the container
projects from the closest curb line of the street no farther than nine feet
into the street, and the container is properly identified with reflectors and/
or other safety device; and a general right-of-way permit is first applied for
and approved by the city engineering division;
            (C)   Shall not be located on a city sidewalk, nor block a city
sidewalk; and
            (D)   Shall not be located in an alley, nor block an alley, nor
located on a service, common or shared drive or block a service, common or
shared drive.
         3.   Duration, frequency, and hourly time limits:
            (A)   When used in conjunction with moving into or out of a
permanent structure (e.g., a house), containers/pods shall be limited to being
used on the site or on an adjoining site for seven (7) days. No temporary use
permit or fee shall be required for containers used in this fashion. For
containers/ pods exceeding the seven (7) days, a temporary use permit is
required.
            (B)   When used for emergency storage on a residential property,
the containers/pods shall be limited to thirty (30) days one time in a calendar
year. Temporary use permits are required.
            (C)   When used for or on commercial or industrial property (e.g.,
when used by a store to keep extra merchandise during a national holiday), the
container/pod shall be kept at the site for no more than thirty (30) days at a
time, two (2) times per calendar year. Temporary use permits are required.
         4.   Use and operation regulations. The following land use regulations
shall govern all containers/pods:
            (A)   Containers/pods shall not cover or block any “code required”
parking spaces/stalls including and especially ADA accessible parking spaces or
their associated loading/unloading areas;
            (B)   Containers/pods shall not be placed within a required
setback/yard area as established by the land use zone in which they are located
or proposed to be located;
            (C)   Container/pods shall not be placed in or over any
established/recorded easements;
            (D)   Containers/pods shall not be stacked one on top of another;
            (E)   Containers/pods shall not be used for welding, vehicle body
repair, customization, or paint shops/facilities/booths (or, in any event, for
conducting of those activities);
            (F)   Containers/pods shall not be allowed to be used as accessory
structures on any lot/parcel.
            (G)   Containers/pods shall not be allowed as permanent structures
unless otherwise noted within the land use tables in this chapter.
      F.   Temporary Housing:
         1.   Type. Temporary housing shall either be a mobile or manufactured
home structure, or recreational vehicle as regulated in this subsection. It
shall be illegal to use any other form of mobile vehicle (e.g., buses) as, or
for, a temporary residence.
         2.   Locations allowed:
            (A)   Temporary housing shall be allowed on legal building lots/
parcels located in zones wherein a single-family house is allowed by right
according to this chapter during the construction of a primary dwelling.
            (B)   Temporary housing shall be allowed on legal building lots/
parcels where a legal primary residence exists, while the primary residence is
being repaired or remodeled.
            (C)   Use of a temporary residence for other than the above two
stated purposes shall not be allowed.
         3.   Duration, frequency, and hourly time limits:
            (A)   Temporary residences used while the permanent home is being
built shall be allowed for a maximum period of three hundred sixty-five (365)
calendar days from the date of approval. One 180-day extension may be requested
and approved for such uses.
            (B)   Temporary residences used while the primary residence is
being repaired or remodeled shall be allowed for a maximum period of one-
hundred eighty (180) calendar days from the date of approval.
         4.   Use and operation regulations. The following land use regulations
shall govern all temporary residences:
            (A)   Temporary residences require a temporary use permit and shall
also require a separate building permit prior to placement on any lot or parcel
within the city.
            (B)   In placing any temporary residence, required setbacks shall
be complied with, height regulations of the zone wherein the structure is
intended to be placed shall be complied with, minimum structure separation and
adequate fire protection shall be maintained, any utility service provided
shall require installation or hookup approval in accordance with city adopted
codes.
   (6)   Additional Regulations and Conditions for Temporary Uses: These
regulations are in addition to (as applicable) and not in lieu of those
specific standards in subsection (5) of this section.
      A.   Operation and Maintenance of Temporary Use:
         1.   No temporary use shall consist of more than one (1) form of
offering, displaying, or storing goods and/or services, per vendor.
         2.   No more than one (1) temporary use shall be allowed/located on a
property at a time unless one of the uses is a mobile food unit / vendor use,
in which case the specific use provisions outlined in
10-12-03-26 for Mobile Food Unit Parks shall be applicable.
         3.   Temporary uses must at all times be placed or parked in a legal
manner.
         4.   Temporary uses that are businesses shall not move from the site
during the course of their certification period unless it is to refill fluids
such as propane, or similar, necessary for the operation of the business or for
other necessary repairs or maintenance to the vehicle that are unable to be
made on site. Planning and Zoning must be notified at least one business day
prior to movement and shall be given the reason for the movement, how long the
vehicle will be away from the site and when the vehicle will return to the
site. The vehicle must return to the site in conjunction with the time frame
given to Planning and Zoning. The vehicle must return to the site in the exact
location as it was previously. Violation or noncompliance of any of these
requirements will result in immediate revocation of the certificate unless
there are extenuating circumstances as determined and approved by the Director
or his/her authorized designee.
         5.   Hard surface for a Base: Temporary uses shall be located on a
noncombustible surface (i.e., only gravel, concrete, or asphalt) and must be at
least twenty-five feet (25') away from combustible materials (e.g., weeds
patches, board fences and permanent structures).
         6.   Accessibility. Temporary uses shall provide adequate
accessibility as required by ADA standards.
         7.   Garbage and Debris: Every person who receives a temporary use
shall clean up all garbage or debris caused by his or her temporary use
facility, transient merchant facility, or mobile food unit, and shall clean up
within a twenty-foot (20') radius of the facility or unit both daily and
immediately upon cessation of such use. Every temporary use must include trash
receptacle sand regular trash service or must receive written permission from
the applicable property owner to use the trash facilities located upon the
property on which the use is being conducted. The site plan submitted with the
permit shall show the location of trash receptacles or method of trash
disposal.
         8.   Sanitary Facilities. Temporary uses must provide a sanitary
sewage treatment plan. Wastewater may not be dumped or discharged on the
premises, adjacent properties, or public right-of-way. If the applicant
proposes the use of any sanitary sewage facilities located on private property,
the applicant shall provide written evidence of an agreement between the
proprietor/operator of the temporary use and the owner or property landlord of
the lot/parcel whereon the temporary use is proposed, that access to sanitary
facilities will be made available to persons working in/at the temporary use
via those facilities on site in a primary structure/use already located on the
same site.
         9.   Source of Power: No temporary use shall connect to any electrical
outlets or sources of power without having first received written permission
from the property owner on which said outlets or sources of power are located.
         10.   Weapons Sales; Prohibited: None of the temporary uses regulated
by this section shall engage in the sale of any weapons.
         11.   Impacts to Surrounding Property: Anyone operating a temporary
use shall do so in a manner that does not create excessive noise, light, dust,
nuisance, or other detriment to the quiet enjoyment of property in the
vicinity.
         12.   Appearance: All temporary uses shall have a clean appearance at
all times.
         13.   Temporary uses as Principal or Permanent Uses: No temporary use
shall be allowed to occupy a vacant lot/parcel by itself (thus becoming,
effectually, the primary/principal use of that property). No temporary use
shall be allowed to remain established on or operate from a lot/parcel longer
than the time periods allotted to said use by this section or by the terms and
conditions of a temporary use permit issued to that use and its proprietor,
whichever is more restrictive.
         14.   Removal: After the termination of the temporary use, the site
shall be restored to its prior condition by the removal of the any structures,
debris or refuse associated with the temporary use. Guarantees for timely
removal may be required if there is a material risk of negative impacts on
nearby properties or the City if such removal does not occur. (Ord. 3670, 4-21-
2025)
10-12-03-35 TOBACCO AND VAPE SHOPS:
   (1)   A Tobacco and Vape Shop, or similar, business shall not be located
within three hundred (300) feet of a property used for a church, daycare, or
education service, measured in a straight line from property line to property
line of the church, daycare, or education service, unless otherwise determined
through the granting of a Special Use Permit from City Council. Applicants must
receive waiver authorization prior to submittal of a building permit. This
limitation shall not apply to any duly licensed premises that at the time of
this standard’s approval did not come within the restricted area.
   (2)   No outside activity or event shall be allowed on the site, except as
provided for in the temporary uses of this Article.
   (3)   Hours of operation shall be limited to between 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
when adjacent to any residential district or use, place of worship, or
education service. Modification of these hours may be approved through the
special use permit process. (Ord. 3670, 4-21-2025)
10-12-03-36 WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES:
   (1)   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to establish guidelines and
standards for the construction and placement of all wireless communications
facilities (WCF), towers, and their accessories within the City of Caldwell.
The goal is to minimize all adverse visual and safety effects on the community
by employing collocation innovative design, location, and camouflaging
techniques.
   (2)   Applicability:
      A.   This section shall not govern antennas or towers which are used
exclusively for the transmission of emergency signals.
      B.   Routine maintenance and minor modifications that do not increase the
height of the WCF may be made on preexisting WCFs to allow for collocation,
replacement of antennas, or new antennas. Placement of antennas shall be
considered routine maintenance, so long as the new antenna does not increase
the height of the WCF. All other modifications shall require the WCF to comply
with the provisions of this section.
   (3)   Procedure:
      A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, construct, or replace
any wireless communications facility (WCF) or antenna within the City without
first contacting the city’s Community Development Department to determine the
need for any special use permit (SUP) approvals and associated fees that may or
may not be necessary prior to obtaining any required building or electrical
permits.
      B.   Application: In addition to standard requirements for obtaining a
building permit, all applications for the construction, reconstruction, or
modification of a wireless communication facility are subject to administrative
review and may be subject to a special use permit as determined by the
Director. The application submittal must include the following information:
         1.   Applicant’s name, address, and telephone number.
         2.   Carrier’s name, address, and telephone number.
         3.   Documentation from a licensed and qualified engineer showing that
the proposed facility will meet or exceed all federal communications commission
standards regarding radio frequency emissions and other energy considerations.
         4.   Documentation showing that the proposed facility conforms to all
regulations administered by the federal aviation administration, including
light and height restrictions (See subsection 10 of this section).
         5.   Documentation of the steps the applicant will take to avoid
electromagnetic interference with other communication facilities.
         6.   Written evidence of compliance with all building and electrical
codes.
         7.   For new towers only: All new WCFs must obtain a SUP prior to
obtaining a building permit. In addition to all information required for an SUP
application, WCFs must also include the following:
            (A)   A letter of intent from the owner of the WCF committing the
tower to collocation of additional antennas, as set forth in subsection (4) of
this section, provided the collocator is agreeable to reasonable terms and
conditions for shared use.
            (B)   A report from a qualified and licensed engineer, including
his/her stamp and registration number on all items. The report shall describe
the proposed facility, and include the following information:
               (i)   A description of the WCF height and design to include a
cross section, elevation profile and stabilization method.
               (ii)   The documented height above finished grade for the WCF
and positions of all potential collocated antennas.
               (iii)   Lighting plan, if applicable.
               (iv)   The minimum mounting distances for collocated antennas.
               (v)   The tower’s capacity to accept collocated antennas,
including the number and types of antennas that may be mounted.
               (vi)   Documentation that the WCF is constructed to meet
industry standards, as set forth in subsection (7)H of this section.
               (vii)   Documentation that the WCF and accessory structures will
not produce any adverse noise, as set forth in subsection (7)I of this section.
            (C)   A written analysis, demonstrating that the proposed location
is the most appropriate within the immediate area and the basis for that
determination offered in a narrative format; the analysis shall include:
               (i)   The topography and description of the surrounding area.
               (ii)   Impediments that would obstruct transmissions.
               (iii)   Technical limitations.
            (D)   Proposed or existing roadway access to the WCF.
            (E)   A list of existing WCFs within two (2) miles of the proposed
WCF location (from Canyon County development services) to demonstrate in
writing that collocation is not feasible on the existing WCFs due to any
combination of the following:
               (i)   Existing towers or structures located within the
applicant’s search radius are not sufficient in terms of location, height, or
structural strength.
               (ii)   The proposed collocation of an existing tower or facility
would be in violation of any local, state, or federal law.
               (iii)   The unwillingness of another tower or facility owner to
entertain the shared use.
               (iv)   The fees, costs, or contractual provisions required to
share or adapt existing WCFs, and structures located within the existing zones
that meet applicant’s needs are unreasonable. For the purposes of this section,
unreasonable costs are those determined to exceed the costs of a new tower
development. Contractual provisions will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.
               (v)   The applicant’s proposed antenna would cause
electromagnetic interference with the antenna located on the existing WCFs or
the existing antenna would cause interference with the applicant’s proposed
antenna.
               (vi)   The applicant demonstrates that there are other limiting
factors that prevent collocation.
      C.   Additional Information Provided: The city may require the applicant
to provide additional information about the WCF or antenna beyond the
information required above. Additionally, the city may retain a qualified
consultant at the applicant’s expense for review purposes.
   (4)   Collocation: Collocation is encouraged for its visually enhancing
attributes and its potential to minimize land use impacts.
      A.   Minor modifications that do not extend the height of the WCF may be
made on preexisting WCFs to allow for collocation.
      B.   Any collocation that increases the height of a WCF shall require an
administrative review as described above and shall be subject to an independent
building code review and permit process.
      C.   The maximum height of new antennas mounted on preexisting structures
in order to accommodate collocation shall not exceed eight feet (8') above the
height of the existing structure, or eight (8) feet above the maximum allowable
height (if there is one) in the underlying zone, whichever height is greater.
      D.   If an antenna is collocated on a public utility, such as a power
pole, the applicant must provide documentation from the utility stating that it
does not object to the collocation.
      E.   An existing utility pole may be replaced with a taller pole to
accommodate collocation, provided that the owner or person who otherwise
controls the pole finds it to be acceptable.
      F.   If the owner or person who otherwise controls a WCF shall fail or
refuse to alter a structure so as to accommodate a proposed and otherwise
feasible collocation, such facility shall thereupon and thereafter be
considered a nonconforming structure and shall not be altered, expanded, or
extended in any respect, as set forth in section
10-02-08, “Nonconforming Uses”, of this article unless such changes are made to
accommodate additional carriers.
      G.   Antennas may be attached to light standards, power line support
devices, or flagpoles, provided the owner or authority agrees in writing to
such placement. The applicant must provide verification from a qualified and
licensed engineer that the antenna placement will not create safety hazards and
is compatible with the item’s structural integrity.
   (5)   Preexisting WCFs And Antennas:
      A.   A notice of continuing use must be filed with the Caldwell planning
and zoning department by the owner/operator for all WCFs or antennas existing
prior to the effective date hereof, certifying that the structure continues to
be used as a WCF or as an antenna. Failure to file a notice of continuing use
within one year of the effective date hereof and provided the carrier has been
notified sixty (60) days in advance of that notice deficiency shall constitute
abandonment.
      B.   Once a notice of continuing use is filed, the WCF or antenna shall
then be considered a preexisting use and shall be allowed to continue to be
used as it presently exists.
      C.   For the purposes of this subsection, all antennas and WCFs that have
received final approval in the form of a building permit prior to the effective
date hereof shall be considered existing.
      D.   A WCF may be rebuilt at a new location on the same site in a
nonresidential zone through an administrative review process, providing that
its new location adheres to the aesthetic zone requirement described below in
subsection (6). The existing WCF must be removed within six (6) months of the
approval of its replacement. The owner(s) of the existing tower must agree to
pay fees incurred by the city to remove the WCF should they fail to comply with
the removal procedures. This removal agreement will be a condition of approval.
   (6)   Height And Setbacks: Towers and antennas, where specially permitted,
shall comply with the following height and setback limitations. For purposes of
land use, height, and setback considerations, land is divided into residential,
nonresidential, and public rights-of-way:
      A.   Setbacks:
         1.   Aesthetic Zone: A circle centered around the center of the base
of the WCF and whose radius is the height of the WCF when in a residential zone
or ½ the WCF height when in a nonresidential zone.
            (A)   Aesthetic zone requirements shall only apply to large scale
facilities such as tower, monopole, and other similar style facilities.
            (B)   The aesthetic zone shall be located entirely on the same
parcel as the WCF, and therefore increase the minimum setback distance from the
property line beyond other code minimum setback requirements.
            (C)   No permanent structures shall be located within the aesthetic
zone that are not directly associated with the WCF (i.e. fences, storage sheds,
etc.) unless it is a non-enclosed structure (i.e. carport, gazebo, etc.).
            (D)   The aesthetic zone shall be visually enhanced with
landscaping or decorative fences/walls in a manner that shields the bottom of
the structure and any ancillary equipment from view of adjacent properties or
public rights-of-way.
            (E)   A WCF is exempt from the aesthetic zone provisions if the
height of the WCF does not exceed the maximum height provisions (if any are
established) of the underlying zoning district by more than 25%.
         2.   Setback Restrictions: Each of Caldwell’s land use zones has an
accompanying setback restriction. WCFs not subject to the aesthetic zone
requirements shall meet the setback requirements of the underlying zone.
         3.   Small-scale facilities that receive approval from the appropriate
jurisdiction or agency to be co-located in the public right-of-way on an
existing utility, light, or street pole are exempt from the setback
requirements.
      B.   Residential Zones:
         1.   WCFs are permitted to be a maximum height of eighty feet (80').
This residential limit is based on the average height of a mature tree in
Caldwell.
         2.   The eighty-foot (80') height limitation may be extended by means
of a height bonus, up to one-hundred (100) feet in height, as a collocation
incentive, provided the height addition does not exceed the parcel’s ability to
meet the underlying aesthetic zone.
         3.   A residential parcel cannot be rezoned to a nonresidential parcel
for the purpose of constructing a WCF to a greater height.
         4.   No variance or administrative exception is available to extend
the WCF beyond the noted height provisions.
         5.   WCFs must comply with all airport height restrictions.
      C.   Nonresidential Zones:
         1.   WCFs will be restricted to a maximum height of two-hundred feet
(200').
         2.   WCFs shall also be subject to any height restrictions related to
the airport zone or airport overlay districts.
         3.   WCFs located in a nonresidential zone must be set back from any
abutting residential zone a distance equal to the height of the WCF as a means
to further buffer incompatible uses.
      D.   Public Rights-Of-Way:
         1.   Only small-scale facilities may be located in a public right-of-
way, no tower or monopole style facilities are permitted.
         2.   Small-scale facilities may be co-located on existing utility,
light, or street poles and shall not extend more than six feet (6') above the
existing pole.
         3.   Antennas located on street poles shall be either fully concealed
within the street pole or camouflaged to appear to be an integrated part of the
street pole. An antenna not flush mounted on the side of the street pole shall
be centered on the top of the street pole to which it is attached and
camouflaged or disguised
         4.   No wireless communication equipment shall be mounted on any
decorative pole located in the right-of-way.
         5.   Facility locations mid-block should be prioritized over
intersection locations whenever feasible.
         6.   When located within a city right-of-way, wireless communication
facilities shall not impede existing and future facilities, including
sidewalks, stormwater infrastructure, water infrastructure, and electric
infrastructure, and other infrastructure included in adopted city plans.
      E.   Accessory Structures:
         1.   Large-Scale facilities: No structure accessory to a WCF or
antenna shall be more than twelve feet (12') in height and shall not have more
than two hundred fifty (250) square feet of gross floor area per carrier to a
maximum of one thousand (1,000) square feet in total gross floor area for
accessory structures.
         2.   Small-Scale: All accessory equipment associated with the antenna
cumulatively shall not exceed more than twenty-eight (28) cubic feet in volume.
      F.   Historic Properties: All WCFs must be set back four hundred feet
(400') from any property listed on the national register of historic places.
The planning and zoning director may reduce the setback after consultation with
the historic preservation commission, provided the WCF is creatively designed
so that it will not detract from its surroundings.
      G.   Prohibition: WCFs are prohibited within three hundred feet (300') of
parcels with hospitals, daycares, schools, and institutions of higher
education, for the purpose of allaying possible safety concerns. This
restriction may be waived if written authorization for the placement of the WCF
is received from the affected hospital, school, and/or institution of higher
education.
      H.   Conflict: If there is a conflict between setback requirements, the
greater setback shall prevail.
   (7)   Uses:
      A.   A WCF may be considered the principal or accessory use.
      B.   A WCF may be placed on a land parcel with a preexisting land use if
the uses are compatible. It is the responsibility of the applicant to prove to
the planning and zoning director’s satisfaction that the uses are compatible.
      C.   If an applicant is seeking to place a WCF on a land parcel already
subject to a special use permit, it may be a basis for denying the application.
      D.   A temporary WCF or antenna erected for test purposes, emergency
communication, or for broadcast remote pickup operations shall not require a
building permit or special use permit. The temporary period must be established
and approved as part of an administrative review prior to the placement of the
WCF or antenna.
   (8)   Design:
      A.   Installation:
         1.   Large-Scale Facilities:
            (A)   WCFs that are one hundred feet (100') in height, up to and
including one hundred twenty-five feet (125') in height shall be structurally
designed to accommodate at least two (2) service providers.
            (B)   WCFs that are between one hundred twenty-five feet (125') and
one hundred fifty feet (150') in height shall be structurally designed to
accommodate at least three (3) service providers.
            (C)   WCFs that are one hundred fifty feet (150') in height or
greater shall be structurally designed to accommodate at least four (4) service
providers.
         2.   Small-Scale Facilities:
            (A)   Small scale wireless communication antennas mounted on
buildings shall blend with the existing building’s architecture by painting or
shielding with material which is consistent with the design features and
materials of the building.
            (B)   Roof attached facilities shall not extend five feet (5')
above the highest portion of the roof, except for the wireless antennas and
support systems for whip antennas, which shall not extend more than ten feet
(10') above the highest portion of the roof.
            (C)   Facilities attached to a building roof shall be setback a
distance equal to the facility height or ten feet (10') from the building roof
edge, whichever is more.
            (D)   Facade attached facilities shall not exceed five feet (5') in
height above the facade to which it is attached.
            (E)   The maximum horizontal projection for a wireless
communication facility attached to a building façade is eighteen inches (18").
            (F)   Antenna shall fit in an enclosure no greater than 9 cubic
feet in volume.
      B.   Materials:
         1.   Colors, materials, textures, screening, and landscaping shall be
used to blend the WCF into the natural setting and/or the built environment and
shall be approved by the city as a part of the review process.
         2.   Metal towers shall be treated with corrosive resistant materials;
wood poles shall be treated with a rot-resistant application.
      C.   Lighting: No antenna or WCF shall have stationary lights, strobe
lights, reflectors, flashers, or other illumination devices attached to it
except during times of repair or as specifically required by the federal
aviation administration, the federal communications commission, or other
agencies of jurisdiction. If lighting is required, the design chosen must cause
the least disturbance to the surrounding views.
      D.   Location Standards:
         1.   No freestanding wireless communication facilities, including
equipment enclosures shall be located between the face of a habitable building
and a public street, trail, or park.
      E.   Signage: Signs, including advertisement, are prohibited on WCFs,
other than to provide warning or equipment information.
      F.   Access:
         1.   Climbing pegs shall be removed from the bottom twenty feet (20')
of the WCFs and replaced only for maintenance purposes to discourage use by
unauthorized persons. Climbing guards shall be placed on conduit risers to
prevent climbing of underground risers.
         2.   All WCFs shall be surrounded by a security fence as a means of
further deterrence. The security fence shall not exceed a height of six feet
(6') in a residential zone or eight feet (8') in all other zones. The fence
shall have a locked gate and shall be at least eighty-five percent (85%)
opaque. Landscaping may be required as a condition of approval.
      G.   Identification: A sign no larger than two feet (2') in height or
width shall be mounted on the outside of the security fence identifying the
owner of the tower and a contact number.
      H.   Compliance:
         1.   The WCF design shall comply with all applicable building and
electrical codes, as administered by the city building official.
         2.   All WCFs shall be constructed to the telecommunications industry
association/electronic industries association (TIA/EIA) 222 revision F standard
entitled “Structural Standards for Steel Antenna Supporting Structures” or as
may be amended.
         3.   All towers must meet or exceed current standards and regulations
of the federal communications commission, federal aviation administration, or
other agencies of jurisdiction regulating WCFs. If the standards and
regulations change, the WCF shall come into compliance with them within six (6)
months. The failure to bring towers and antennas into compliance with new
standards and regulations in a timely manner will constitute grounds for
removal of the WCF at the owner’s expense.
         4.   If a WCF is built on an undeveloped lot, it may be required to
come into compliance with other land use requirements such as placement of
curbs and gutters.
      I.   Noise: The WCF and accessory structures shall not produce noise
levels separately or accumulatively above forty-five (45) decibels as measured
from the nearest property line on which the WCF is located.
   (9)   Abandoned Towers:
      A.   The owner of any WCF must notify the Caldwell planning and zoning
department in writing within thirty (30) days that a WCF is no longer
operational. Any WCF not operated for a continuous period of twelve (12) months
shall be considered abandoned.
      B.   A nonoperational WCF shall be removed within six (6) months of the
city’s determination that the structure is abandoned or nonoperational.
      C.   If a WCF and accompanying facilities are not removed within six (6)
months, they may be removed by the city and the associated costs assessed
against the property.
      D.   The abandonment provision shall become effective when the WCF has no
operational component.
      E.   Determination of the date of abandonment shall be made by the
planning and zoning director based upon documentation and/or affidavits from
the WCF or antenna owner/operator regarding the issue of usage.
   (10)   Airport:
      A.   Any construction sponsor is required to submit a notice to the city,
federal aviation administration (FAA), and Idaho transportation department,
division of aeronautics, if the construction exceeds the following:
         1.   If the proposed object would be more than one hundred fifty feet
(150') above ground level at its location.
         2.   If the proposed object would be within twenty thousand feet
(20,000') and would exceed one foot (1') in height for each one hundred feet
(100') horizontally from the nearest point of the nearest runway.
      B.   The preferred form of notification is the FAA form 7460-1; this form
needs to be filled out in full and include all recommended attachments.
      C.   An antenna tower will be prohibited if its height exceeds the
following:
         1.   Any of the imaginary surfaces as defined by federal aviation
regulation part 77 for the most demanding future approach anticipated for the
airport,
         2.   Any of the surfaces as defined by FAA handbook 8260.3, “United
States Standards For Terminal Instrument Procedures” (TERPS) for the most
demanding future approach anticipated for the airport,
         3.   If it is determined to be a hazard to air navigation by the FAA.
      D.   Any antenna tower will be marked and lighted in accordance with FAA
advisory circular 70/7460-1K change 1 if it is determined that:
         1.   It is a hazard to air flight as defined by Idaho Code 21-513
through 21-520 and Idaho transportation department rule 39.04.02,
         2.   It is one hundred fifty feet (150') above ground level at its
location,
         3.   Lighting and marking is recommended by either the FAA or the
Idaho division of aeronautics.
      E.   The city will use the obstruction determinations prepared by the
federal aviation administration and the Idaho division of aeronautics as their
own for the purposes of administering these height restrictions.
   (11)   Other:
      A.   The placement of WCFs in historical designated areas and within one
hundred feet (100') of future designated presentation streets is discouraged
and may subject the WCF to additional requirements.
      B.   In addition to the conditions imposed by this chapter, the planning
and zoning commission and/or the hearing examiner reserve the right to attach
additional conditions, to include specific placement provisions, time
durations, and financial bonds.
      C.   In the event that police, fire, ambulance, or other emergency
services experience interference attributable to the transmissions of a WCF or
antenna, the antenna or WCF will be considered to be in violation of this
section and the service provider shall immediately reconcile the conflict and
provide the municipality a written correspondence explaining the actions that
were taken to pronounce remedy. (Ord. 3670, 4-21-2025)
ARTICLE 13: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
Section
   
10-13-01   Intent and Purpose
   
10-13-02   Development Standards
   
10-13-03   Expirations, Extensions and Renewals
   
10-13-04   Amenities
   
10-13-05   Application Process
   
10-13-06   Flexibility in Applying Zoning Standards
   
10-13-07   Infill Development
10-13-01 INTENT AND PURPOSE:
   (1)   Intent: A planned unit development involves a parcel of land which is
planned and developed as a unit under single ownership or control, containing
one or more uses, buildings, and common open space or recreational facilities.
The planned unit development process is not intended to skirt development
rules, nor does it result in a detrimental impact on the surrounding community
through its implementation. The administrative procedures for a planned unit
development shall be the same as applied to special use permits.
   (2)   Purpose: It shall be the purpose of this section to encourage the
efficient use of resources, promote greater efficiency in public and utility
services, preservation of open space, efficient use of alternative
transportation and encouraging innovation in the planning and building of all
types of development. Such developments may be permitted without customary
division into individual lots, or without specific conformance with the zoning
district regulations as applicable to individual lots or traditional
subdivisions subject to the regulations as provided in this chapter.
      A.   Required Objectives: The planned unit development process is
intended to provide flexibility, latitude and relief from the provisions of the
zoning ordinance only if the proposed development is consistent with two (2) or
more of the following instances:
         1.   The development offers a maximum choice of living environments by
allowing a variety of housing and building types.
         2.   The development promotes mixed-use projects which are
functionally integrated within the development and provides services for the
primary use.
         3.   The development provides a layout which preserves and properly
utilizes natural topography and geologic features, trees, scenic vistas or
other vegetation.
         4.   Where a land parcel is constrained or otherwise limited by some
obstacle, feature, geometry, condition, or easement that interferes with
applying standard development processes.
         5.   The development is an infill development, on less than five (5)
acres, that contributes a compatible design to the existing neighborhood. (Ord.
3671, 4-21-2025)
10-13-02 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
   (1)   The planning and zoning commission and the city council shall consider
approval of planned unit developments in accordance with the following
standards:
      A.   Changes: Changes in the development standards and bulk regulations
of the underlying zone may be approved as per subsection
10-13-05 of this section.
      B.   Uses: Uses shall be limited to those uses which are permitted or
specially permitted within the base zoning district. No more than 70% of the
development shall be devoted to a single type of land use.
      C.   Latitude: Following the spirit and purpose of this section, much
greater latitude is permitted than in conventional and traditional regulations
for development.
      D.   Discretionary Powers: In consideration of the latitude given, the
planning and zoning commission and city council shall have discretionary powers
in judging and approving or disapproving the imaginative or unique concepts,
innovations, and designs which shall be incorporated into the plans presented,
provided that the planned unit development shall conform to the general
purposes and objectives of the comprehensive plan.
      E.   Residential Density: The number of dwelling units allowed in a
planned unit development shall be calculated by multiplying the gross area and
the dwelling units permitted in the underlying land use classification shown on
the comprehensive plan map. A planned unit development shall be consistent with
the density guidelines provided in the comprehensive plan and this chapter.
      F.   Residential Uses: Where a development is proposed to be exclusively
residential, a variety of three (3) or more housing types or residential uses
shall be included in a planned unit development regardless of the zoning
classification of the district, provided that the overall density for the base
zoning district is maintained. For the purposes of this section, single-family
residential lots with an area difference of 200% or more shall qualify as
separate housing types. No housing type shall provide fewer than 10% of the
proposed dwelling units.
      G.   Commercial Uses: When planned unit developments include commercial
uses, commercial buildings and establishments, the development shall be planned
as groups having common parking areas and common ingress and egress points in
order to reduce the number of potential accident locations at intersections. A
planned unit development shall follow section
10-02-09-6 (buffers between land uses) of this chapter. The plan of the project
shall provide for the integrated and harmonious design of buildings, and for
adequate and properly arranged facilities as reasonably necessary for internal
traffic circulation.
      H.   Future Development: All areas designed for future development or
expansion or not intended for immediate improvement shall be landscaped or
otherwise maintained in a neat and orderly manner.
      I.   Required Setbacks: Townhomes within a planned unit development are
permitted to have a 0' side yard setback.
      J.   Clustering: Every clustered area developed under the planned unit
development approach should be designed to abut upon common open space or
recreational amenities. Clustering is desired in mixed unit developments.
      K.   Parking: Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with the
parking requirements as specified by
10-02-05 of this chapter.
      L.   Access: All lots developed as single-family residential lots shall
front or shall have frontage along a public roadway or common driveway. All
other lots developed for residential purposes shall front a public roadway or
shall utilize common driveways as regulated by Section
11-03-02 or shall comply with Section
10-14-02.
      M.   Ownership: A planned unit development shall be under single
ownership/control during the planning and developmental stage to ensure that
the development can be accomplished in a unified manner. A PUD developer may
sell a portion of an approved PUD if the purchaser submits a notarized letter
to the planning and zoning director stating that he/she reviewed the order of
decision, development agreement, phasing plan, and all other applicable
materials and agrees to comply with all conditions of approval.
      N.   Planned Unit Development Size: Unless the site qualifies as an
infill development, the overall site shall consist of a minimum gross area of
ten (10) acres.
      O.   Phasing Plan: The applicant shall submit a phasing plan for all
features and amenities in a planned unit development. The phasing plan shall be
approved by the city council and may be amended by the planning and zoning
director and city engineer. A staff level denial of a requested amendment may
be appealed to the city council.
      P.   Classification Of Uses: More than one classification of uses and
more than one use within these classifications shall be permitted on a lot or
parcel within the same building or different buildings if the proposed
individual uses are permitted uses. Any special uses will be heard as part of
the planned unit development hearing process.
      Q.   Expiration:
         1.   The completion of the first phase of a planned unit development
shall take place within three (3) years of the signature date on the order of
decision approving the planned unit development or said approval shall become
null and void.
         2.   For each phase after the first phase there shall be an allowed
one-year time frame per phase for completion. Should any phase not be completed
within its one-year time frame, approval on the uncompleted portion of the
planned unit development shall become null and void.
         3.   Exceptions to the time frames may be granted at the time of
original approval of the planned unit development, provided said exceptions are
requested in the initial application. (Ord. 3671, 4-21-2025)
10-13-03 EXPIRATIONS, EXTENSIONS AND RENEWALS:
   (1)   Expiration:
      A.   The completion of the first phase of a planned unit development
shall take place within three (3) years of the signature date on the order of
decision approving the planned unit development or said approval shall become
null and void.
      B.   For each phase after the first phase there shall be an allowed one
year time frame per phase for completion. Should any phase not be completed
within its one year time frame, approval on the uncompleted portion of the
planned unit development shall become null and void.
      C.   Exceptions to the time frames may be granted at the time of original
approval of the planned unit development, provided said exceptions are
requested in the initial application.
   (2)   Renewals:
      A.   One planned unit development renewal of up to eighteen (18) months
may be authorized by the director for all expired planned unit development
approvals. No planned unit development renewal shall be granted if there are
any outstanding City Code violations on the subject property. The director
shall consider approval of said renewal in accordance with the criteria listed
in this section and in conformance with the comprehensive plan.
      B.   No renewal shall be granted for any development that has been
expired for a period of time exceeding twelve months (if no development has
occurred), or for a period of time exceeding twenty-four (24) months (if
development has occurred), regardless of when the original date of approval
occurred for the planned unit development.
      C.   Time Extensions: Upon written request and filing by the applicant,
prior to the termination of the period in accordance with subsection Q of this
section, the director may authorize a single extension of time not to exceed
one (1) two-year period. No further extensions shall be granted. (Ord. 3671, 4-
21-2025)
10-13-04 AMENITIES:
   (1)   Any latitude, flexibility or relief provided through this land use
application shall be compensated for by the addition of some new amenity,
within or outside the development. Such an amenity should provide equal or
greater value to the development as a whole. The determination of whether the
compensation offered is equal to or greater than the relief provided is left to
the planning and zoning commission and city council’s discretion.
      A.   Required Amenities: All planned unit developments shall have the
following features:
         1.   Five-foot (5') wide asphalt paved pathways connecting the
residential areas to all non-residential areas, open space common lots,
recreational facilities, major pathways, and school bus pick-up locations.
         2.   Eight-foot (8') wide asphalt paved or concrete paved or porous
surfaced (other than gravel) pathways are required in all planned unit
developments with a five foot (5') wide landscape buffer on each side of
pathways. Pathways meeting the standards listed above are required to provide
connectivity to adjacent pathways, to comply with the city’s pathway master
plan, and to provide for connectivity to adjacent properties. In general,
pathways shall meander through the center of the PUD, be entirely located
within a platted common lot that is dedicated as a public access easement and
provide connectivity to adjacent parcels of land.
         3.   Usable open space (as defined in section
10-07-10 of this chapter) of at least fifteen percent (15%) of the gross area.
         4.   Street landscape buffers with undulating berms of a two to one
(2:1) to three to one (3:1) ratio.
      B.   Additional Required Amenities: Four (4) or more of the following
amenities shall be provided as part of each planned unit development.
         Baseball/softball field.
         Basketball court.
         Boat dock/river access.
         Buildings are constructed to LEEDS standards.
         Community center.
         Daycare center.
         Energy star certified housing.
         Fishing pond.
         Golf course/driving range.
         Gym/health club.
         Land provided for a public facility (school, fire station, police
station, etc.).
         Playground/tot lot.
         Rear entry garages.
         Residential buildings constructed with fire sprinkler systems.
         Skateboard Park.
         Swimming pool.
         Tennis court.
         Other suitable amenities or public benefits deemed worthy by the city
council. (Ord. 3671, 4-21-2025)
10-13-05 APPLICATION PROCESS:
   (1)   Subdivisions and developments created through the planned unit
development process shall provide a narrative and architectural renderings,
open space and amenities exhibits, and landscaping exhibits, in addition to
other application submittal requirements, that explain what amenities will be
incorporated inside the development to compensate for deviations to the city’s
development standards and how its construction will satisfy the community’s
need for a wide range of housing and commercial businesses. (Ord. 3671, 4-21-
2025)
10-13-06 FLEXIBILITY IN ZONING STANDARDS:
   (1)   The developer may request to deviate from the height, lot line
setback, and lot dimension schedule found in this chapter for the underlying
zone, with the approval of the city council. Requests for deviations shall be
listed in full as a part of the planned unit development application and
narrative.
   (2)   Modifications to other zoning and subdivision standards may be
considered in exchange for additional amenities above and beyond what is
required in this section and will be considered by the planning and zoning
commission and city council on a case-by-case basis, except for the following:
      A.   Modifications shall not be approved for increasing the amount of
nonpermitted used above the maximum of 30% as specified in
10-13-02 (1)B1 of this Article.
      B.   Modifications shall not be approved to increase the maximum density
allowances for the underlying zone, except as specified in 10-13-06 of this
Article. (Ord. 3671, 4-21-2025)
10-13-07 INFILL DEVELOPMENT:
   (1)   For the purpose of this article, development utilizing the infill
objective as one of their qualifying objectives shall comply with the
following:
      A.   The applicant shall submit documentation that the site qualifies as
an infill site with the planned unit development application. Verification of
infill may be in the form of recent aerial photographs. In addition, the
applicant shall provide documentation regarding the following services: water,
sewer, fire coverage, public schools, and irrigation.
      B.   The applicant shall demonstrate the proposed building design is
compatible with the existing neighborhood and adjoining properties by taking
into account building type, height, bulk, and site location.
      C.   Upon the request of the applicant, the City Council may waive all or
part of the amenity requirements listed in subsection (4) of this section for
infill development.
      D.   Upon the request of the applicant, the City Council may approve a
density increase for infill development, for up to 150% of the maximum base
density allowed within the underlying zone, if the Council determines it is in
the best interest of the community and is compatible with the surrounding
neighborhood. The increase, if approved, shall not be in addition to any bonus
density increases given in accordance with Section
10-03-18 of this chapter. (Ord. 3671, 4-21-2025)
ARTICLE 14: MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
Section
   
10-14-01   Multi-Family Development Minimum Site And Open Space Design
Standards
   
10-14-02   Internal Circulation Routes For Multi-Family Developments
   
10-14-03   Multi-Family Architectural Design Standards
10-14-01 MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENT MINIMUM SITE AND OPEN SPACE DESIGN STANDARDS:
   (1)   Purpose:
      A.   To implement the goals and policies of the Comprehensive Plan:
         1.   Plan for safe, attractive, and well-maintained neighborhoods that
have ample open space, and generous amenities that provide varied lifestyle
choices.
         2.   Require the design and construction of pathways connections, easy
pedestrian and bicycle access to parks, safe routes to schools, and the
incorporation of usable open space with quality amenities as part of new multi-
family residential and mixed-use developments.
      B.   To create multi-family housing that is safe and convenient and that
enhances the quality of life of its residents.
         1.   To create quality buildings and designs for multi-family
development that enhance the visual character of the community.
         2.   To create building and site design in multi-family development
that is sensitive to and well-integrated with the surrounding neighborhood.
         3.   To create open space areas that contribute to the aesthetics of
the community, provide an attractive setting for buildings, and provide safe,
interesting outdoor spaces for residents.
   (2)   Applicability:
      A.   The standards contained in this article shall apply to all Multi-
Family Development projects, as defined in
10-01-10 of this Chapter, including mixed use projects that contain multi-
family residential.
      B.   This article is not applicable to the Downtown zoning districts
(Downtown - City Center or Downtown - Central Business District).
   (3)   Site Design:
      A.   Multi-family Residential buildings shall provide a minimum setback
along the perimeter of the project of at least fifteen (15) feet unless a
greater setback is otherwise required by this article and/or
Chapter 10 or
Chapter 11 of this Code.
      B.   Multi-family Residential buildings shall provide a minimum setback
between each building within the project of at least ten (10) feet unless a
greater separation is required by building or fire codes.
      C.   When new multi-family buildings are proposed and share a property
line with existing single-family residential dwellings, a minimum twenty-five
(25) foot landscape buffer shall be installed along the shared property line
consistent with all land use buffer requirements of
10-02-09-6.
         1.   Exception: Single-story structures are exempt from the 25-foot
buffer and may maintain the minimum 15-foot setback requirement of (3)A above.
         2.   Exception: See Article 10-08 for required multi-family buffering
and setback requirements in the City Center and Central Business District.
      D.   When new multi-family buildings are across a public roadway from
single-family residential dwellings, the minimum fifteen (15) foot setback
shall be maintained unless a larger landscape street buffer is required (i.e.
Collector roadways require 20' and Arterials require 25') and shall include
undulating berms no greater than 3' in height throughout the buffer area.
      E.   All on-site service areas, outdoor storage areas, waste storage,
disposal facilities, and transformer and utility vaults shall be located in an
area not visible from a public street or common area. If visible from a public
street or common area, these areas shall be fully screened from view from a
public street or public space via solid fencing or landscaping, or a
combination thereof.
      F.   A minimum of sixty (60) square feet of private, usable open space
shall be provided for each unit. This requirement can be satisfied through
private porches, patios, decks, and/or enclosed yards. These areas must be
separated from other common areas with visual or physical elements such as
landscaping, walls/fencing, patio covers, building design, etc. Landscaping,
entryway and other accessways utilized by the overall development shall not
count toward this requirement.
         1.   Where any first floor private patios face existing single-family
residential, the patio area shall be screened from view by either a solid wall,
fence, or landscaping three (3) feet in height.
      G.   For the purposes of this section, internal vehicular circulation
areas, parking areas, and private usable open space shall not be considered
common open space.
      H.   No recreational vehicles, snowmobiles, boats or other personal
recreation vehicles shall be stored on the site unless provided for in a
separate, designated, and screened area.
      I.   The required off-street parking shall meet the requirements set
forth in Article 2 of this Chapter (
10-02-05).
      J.   Internal pedestrian circulation routes shall be minimum five (5)
foot wide sidewalks and include curbing and gutters adjacent to parking areas
and shall connect to micro-pathways and sidewalks throughout the development
providing for internal connectivity and easy access to any adjacent public
street. The improvements shall be constructed to the applicable standards of
the Engineering Department of the City of Caldwell.
      K.   Developments with twenty (20) units or more shall provide the
following:
         1.   A property management office.
         2.   A maintenance storage area.
         3.   A central mailbox location, including provisions for parcel mail,
which provides safe pedestrian and/or vehicular access.
         4.   A directory and map of the development at an entrance or
convenient location for those entering the development.
   (4)   Common Open Space Design Requirements:
      A.   All open space required as part of this chapter shall be located
immediately adjacent to and/or within the multi-family development.
      B.   The total baseline land area of all qualified common open space
shall equal or exceed ten (10) percent of the gross land area for all multi-
family developments.
      C.   All qualified common open space shall meet the following standards:
         1.   The development plan shall demonstrate that the open space has
been integrated into the development as a priority and not for the use of
remnant land after all other elements of the development have been designed;
irregular shaped, disconnected or isolated open spaces shall not meet this
standard and will not be considered qualified open space. Open space areas that
have been given priority in the development design have:
            (a)   Direct pedestrian access;
            (b)   Placemaking components;
            (c)   High visibility;
            (d)   Thoughtful design that preserves community culture;
            (e)   Support a range of leisure and play activities and uses; and
            (f)   Applicant should comply with the following Crime Prevention
through Environmental Design (CPTED) standards as listed below:
               (i)   Natural Surveillance: Design the environment to maximize
visibility, making it easier for people to see and be seen. This can be
achieved through features like well-placed windows, adequate lighting, and
visually accessible open spaces through the use of open-vision fencing;
               (ii)   Environmental Design: Consider the layout, design, and
aesthetics of open spaces to create a sense of community, identity, and place;
               (iii)   Natural Access Control: Control and channel the flow of
people through a space to create a sense of ownership and territoriality. Use
elements like fences, gates, and landscaping to guide movement and deter
unauthorized access;
               (iv)   Maintenance and Management: Keep the open space area
well-maintained and clean to signal that it is cared for and monitored.
Neglected or poorly maintained areas can attract criminal activity.
         2.   Open space shall be accessible and well connected throughout the
development. This quality can be shown with open spaces that are centrally
located within the development, accessible by pathways, and/or visually
accessible along collector streets or as a terminal view from a street.
         3.   The open space should promote the health and well-being of its
residents. Open space shall support active and passive uses for recreation,
social gathering, and relaxation to serve the development.
         4.   Upper-level decks or terraces may count towards the minimum
qualified open space if these areas include shared amenities such as, seating
areas, barbeques, fireplaces, recreational spaces, roof gardens (accessible by
residents), or landscaping. Decks or terraces shall also include appropriate
features for the safety of residents such as lighting and railings.
      D.   All multi-family projects of at least five (5) acres in size or
fifty (50) units or more shall provide at least one (1) common grassy area
integrated into the site design allowing for general activities by all ages.
This area may be included in the minimum required qualified open space total.
Projects that provide safe access to adjacent public parks or parks under a
common HOA within a quarter mile, without crossing an arterial roadway, are
exempt from this standard.
         1.   Minimum size of common grassy area shall be at least ten thousand
(10,000) square feet in area. This area may include trees and other landscaping
but shall be designed to provide as much open area as possible for general
activities by all ages.
      E.   In addition to the baseline qualified open space requirement, multi-
family developments of five (5) acres or more shall provide a minimum area of
common open space per dwelling unit as follows; said open space shall be
located immediately adjacent to and/or within the multi-family development:
         1.   One hundred fifty (150) square feet for each unit containing five
hundred (500) or less square feet of living area.
         2.   Two hundred fifty (250) square feet for each unit containing more
than five hundred (500) square feet and up to one thousand two hundred (1,200)
square feet of living area.
         3.   Three hundred fifty (350) square feet for each unit containing
more than one thousand two hundred (1,200) square feet of living area.
      F.   Qualified common open space shall be not less than four hundred
(400) square feet in area and shall have a minimum length and width dimension
of twenty (20) feet. Linear open space that complies with the micro-pathway
requirements of this chapter may count towards the qualified open space despite
being less than twenty (20) feet wide.
         1.   Further, if any open space is sectioned off for private use, this
area will no longer be considered common and shall not count towards the
minimum qualified common open space; it may count towards private open space
requirements.
      G.   In phased developments, common open space shall be provided in each
phase-the main amenity and main open space area shall not be located within the
final phase of development.
      H.   Unless otherwise approved through the special use or planned unit
development process, common open space areas shall not be adjacent to collector
or arterial street buffers unless separated from the street by a berm or
constructed barrier at least four (4) feet in height, with breaks in the berm
or barrier to allow for pedestrian access.
      I.   Perimeter Landscaping/Buffer(s): Fifty (50) percent of the required
perimeter and/or landscape use buffer may count towards the required common
open space area if landscaped to minimum code requirements of
10-02-09 and incorporates some other amenity or use that helps activate the
area (i.e. active-use amenity, walking paths, etc.).
      J.   Street Buffer(s): Fifty (50) percent of the landscape buffer along
collector streets and arterial streets may count towards the required baseline
open space if they meet at least one of the enhanced buffer requirements below:
         1.   Enhanced pathways (10' multi-use, wider than minimum
requirements);
         2.   Enhanced amenities with social interaction characteristics
(benches, public art, water features, etc.);
         3.   Enhanced context with the surroundings (informational/educational
signage, historic enhancement of existing features, etc.);
         4.   Enhanced landscaping that creates a sense of place and goes
beyond the minimum landscape buffer requirements.
   (5)   Site Development Amenities:
      A.   All multi-family developments shall provide for quality of life,
open space, and recreation amenities to meet the particular needs of the
residents as follows; the number of amenities required is stated below in
subsection (5)B below:
         1.   Quality of life.
            (a)   Clubhouse.
            (b)   Fitness facilities.
            (c)   Enclosed bike storage.
            (d)   Public art such as a statue.
            (e)   Dog park with waste station.
            (f)   Commercial outdoor kitchen.
            (g)   Fitness course.
            (h)   Enclosed storage
         2.   Open space.
            (a)   Community garden.
            (b)   Ponds or water features.
            (c)   Plaza.
            (d)   Picnic area including tables, benches, landscaping and a
structure for shade.
         3.   Recreation.
            (a)   Pool.
            (b)   Walking trails.
            (c)   Children’s play structure (tot-lot).
            (d)   Children’s climbing rocks, or similar.
            (e)   Sports courts.
         4.   Multi-modal amenity standards.
            (a)   Bicycle repair station.
            (b)   Park and ride lot.
            (c)   Sheltered transit stop.
            (d)   Charging stations for electric vehicles.
      B.   The number of amenities shall depend on the size of multi-family
development as follows:
         1.   For multi-family developments with less than twenty (20) units,
two (2) total amenities shall be provided from two (2) separate categories.
         2.   For multi-family developments between twenty (20) and one hundred
(100) units, three (3) total amenities shall be provided from separate
categories.
         3.   For multi-family developments between one hundred (100) and one-
hundred and fifty (150) units, four (4) amenities shall be provided, with at
least one (1) from each category.
         4.   For multi-family developments with more than one-hundred and
fifty (150) units, the decision-making body shall require additional amenities
commensurate to the size of the proposed development.
      C.   The decision-making body shall be authorized to consider other
improvements in addition to those provided under this subsection, provided that
these improvements provide a similar level of amenity.
      D.   In the event that the number of dwelling units does not trigger a
centralized open space area as outlined in subsection (4)D above, the required
amenities may be placed within any required perimeter buffer or other open
space area such that these perimeter landscape areas are an amenity to the
development.
   (6)   Landscaping Requirements:
      A.   Development shall meet the minimum landscaping requirements in
accord with section
10-02-09 of this code. Where conflicts occur, this article shall take
precedence.
      B.   Street Landscape Buffers: When a multi-family development has
frontage on a classified roadway not adjacent to single-family residential, the
standard street buffer requirements of
10-02-09 shall apply. When a multi-family development has frontage on a
Collector roadway, Local roadway, or unclassified street type that directly
abuts single-family residential homes, the following landscape street buffer
requirements shall be applicable:
         1.   Tree Density: A minimum density of one (1) tree per twenty-five
(25) linear feet for Class I ornamental trees; A minimum density of one (1)
tree per thirty-five (35) linear feet for Class II trees is required.
            (a)   No more than 50% of the required trees shall be Class 1;
            (b)   No more than 40% of the required trees shall be of the same
tree species.
         2.   Shrub Density: The shrub density shall equal one (1) shrub per
four (4) linear feet of street buffer. The shrubs shall be spaced throughout
the buffer area, may be placed in groupings to ensure visual interest and
adequate screening, and shall include a mix of perennial and evergreen
plantings.
         3.   Groundcover: No more than 30% of the street buffer shall be
covered with grass/sod. Natural fescue, native grasses, perennials, or
combination thereof, shall be a minimum of 20% of the buffer area.
      C.   All street facing elevations shall have landscaping along their
foundation. The foundation landscaping shall meet the following minimum
standards:
         1.   The landscaped area shall be at least three (3) feet wide.
         2.   For every three (3) linear feet of foundation, an evergreen shrub
having a minimum mature height of thirty-six (36) inches shall be planted.
         3.   Ground cover plants shall be planted in the remainder of the
landscaped area.
   (7)   Maintenance and ownership responsibilities. All multi-family
developments shall be responsible for the ownership, maintenance, and
management responsibilities of the development, including, but not limited to,
structures, parking, common areas, and other development features.
   (8)   Police access under exigent circumstances. Multifamily developments
with units that take access via secured common corridors shall install and
maintain a keyless entry system, or suitable alternative, to provide police
access to the common corridors under exigent circumstances. The keyless entry
system or alternative shall be subject to review and approval by the Caldwell
Police Department. (Ord. 3672, 4-21-2025)
10-14-02 INTERNAL CIRCULATION ROUTES FOR MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENTS:
   (1)   Applicability: All multi-family developments shall comply with the
standards as set forth in this section. A site plan or plat shall be submitted
that accurately designates all dimensions for required parking spaces,
vehicular circulation routes, landscaping and sidewalks.
   (2)   Purpose: The purpose of these regulations related to internal
circulation routes for multi-family developments is as follows:
      A.   To provide for traffic safety, to minimize the impacts on the public
circulation system, and to make appropriate connections to surrounding pathways
and roadways.
      B.   To provide for adequate access for emergency services.
      C.   To provide for internal vehicular and pedestrian circulation within
the development and provide for onsite-to-offsite/offsite-to-onsite movement
for residents and/or users of the circulation routes.
   (3)   Requirements: Internal vehicular circulation routes, where a public
street is not required, must comply with the requirements of this subsection
and shall provide a safe walking environment and offer natural surveillance for
the occupants and/or users.
      A.   Dimensions:
         1.   Paved internal vehicular circulation routes shall have a minimum
width of twenty-six feet (26'). The Fire Marshal may require additional width
for life safety purposes.
         2.   Parking stalls shall meet the requirements as set forth in
Article 2, Section 5 of this chapter.
      B.   General Construction and Design Requirements:
         1.   The furthest portion of any structure cannot be more than one
hundred and fifty feet (150') from the nearest point of the internal vehicular
circulation route, measured in a straight line.
         2.   Internal vehicular circulation routes that extend further than
one hundred and fifty feet (150') from the entrance to the development into
said development shall be required to terminate in a fire apparatus turnaround,
as set forth in the 2018 International Fire Code.
         3.   A secondary fire access is required for developments exceeding
one hundred (100) total units, unless all structures of the entire development
are equipped with fire suppression systems as set forth in the 2018
International Fire Code.
         4.   Section D105 of the International Fire Code shall apply to all
structures that are taller than thirty feet (30').
         5.   Internal vehicular circulation routes shall be paved with a
surface with capability of supporting, at a minimum, two (2) axled vehicles and
fire equipment, with at least eighty thousand (80,000) pounds gross vehicle
weight.
         6.   Internal vehicular circulation routes shall either be straight or
shall have a minimum twenty-eight foot (28') inside and forty-eight foot (48')
outside turning radius.
         7.   External lighting shall be required along and for all internal
circulation routes and shall be shown on the site plan and/or preliminary plat.
         8.   For any lots utilizing internal vehicular circulation routes, the
setbacks, dimensioned building envelope, and orientation of the lots and
structures to the internal vehicular circulation route shall be shown on the
preliminary plat or required site plan as an exhibit with the final plat
application or building permit application.
         9.   All internal vehicular circulation routes shall have a pavement
design that complies with City standards or provide a geotechnical report
specifying pavement section design. Construction plans shall be reviewed and
approved by the Engineering Department for compliance prior to construction.
         10.   It shall be noted on the final plat or required site plan that,
if there are any public utilities located within or under the internal
vehicular circulation routes, a utility easement shall be platted and granted
to the City. Any required maintenance or repair to the public utility within
the utility easement shall take place regardless of any potential damage or
destruction to the internal vehicular circulation route as a consequence of the
utility maintenance or repair, and repair or replacement shall not be the
responsibility of the public utility or the City. The utility company and City
shall not be liable for any damage to the internal circulation route due to
utility maintenance. The foregoing subsection (3)B.10. and its acknowledgment
by the applicable developer is a condition precedent to the approval of all
multi-family development, and the same shall be included in the informational
material provided by the Planning and Zoning Department to all applicants for
preliminary plats for multi-family residential development.
         11.   No structures may be located within a public utility easement.
      C.   Street Names: Internal vehicular circulation routes shall be given a
name and/or names, in accordance with
Chapter 5 of the Caldwell City Code, when said internal vehicular circulation
routes serve three (3) or more units.
      D.   Ownership: Internal vehicular circulation routes shall be identified
by note on a required site plan and/or platted as common lots to be owned and
maintained by a homeowner’s or business owner’s association or as perpetual
ingress-egress easements to be maintained by a homeowner’s or business owner’s
association. (Ord. 3672, 4-21-2025)
10-14-03 MULTI-FAMILY ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN STANDARDS:
   (1)   Purpose:
      A.   Promote visually aesthetic building designs that incorporate quality
architectural characteristics and establish built environments that are
compatible with existing, planned, and anticipated adjacent land uses.
      B.   Promote building design that encourages an aesthetically appealing
and safe places to live, while contributing to the pedestrian environment.
      C.   Emphasize architectural building forms that support compatible
building scales and contribute to the quality of the neighborhood, while
maintaining four-sided architecture.
      D.   Create multi-family and accessory structures that add visual
interest and contribute to the human scale of the development by incorporating
appropriate color and material changes to promote quality appearance and
character.
      E.   Encourage the integration of architectural lighting as cohesive
elements of building design that contribute to the atmosphere of the built
environment and promote safe pedestrian environments.
   (2)   Applicability: All new multi-family residential buildings and
accessory buildings such as detached garages, clubhouses, maintenance
buildings, etc. shall comply with the architectural design standards as set
forth in this section.
   (3)   Design Standards:
      A.   Building Form:
         1.   Building facades shall be varied with horizontal and vertical
elements that break up long blank walls, add visual interest, and enhance the
character of the neighborhood.
         2.   Wall modulation shall occur to articulate wall planes, break up
building mass, and delineate separate unit entrances. Qualifying modulation
includes, but is not limited to: projections, recesses, and primary façade step
backs that occur no less than 30 horizontal feet.
            (a)   Modulation may be averaged over the length of the façade so
long as no wall segment exceeds 40% of the overall wall length without
qualifying modulation.
         3.   Qualifying wall modulation shall be a minimum of one (1) foot in
depth and two (2) feet in width. When part of a townhome style building
(single-family or multi-family), each dwelling unit shall be modulated at least
two (2) feet in depth to delineate each unit and break up wall segments.
         4.   Ground level and upper stories shall be clearly distinguished
using any combination of material type, color variation, banding, stringcourse,
or modulation.
         5.   Second-story facades shall not extend beyond the front face of
first-story facades without additional façade modulation or additional material
types and architectural accents.
         6.   Building entries shall be visible and clearly marked with
canopies, porches, gables, and/or similar architectural elements; entries may
pop-out or be recessed to meet this standard.
         7.   Residential entries and multi-family stairwells shall provide
convenient access to and from parking and pedestrian areas while being
integrated into the overall site and building design.
         8.   Windows shall provide relief, detail, and variation on the
façade. This may occur through the use of significant trim and architectural
styling that lends human scale to the façade through recesses, projection, or
trim that is visually significant and features a color that is contrasting to
the primary façade color.
         9.   Where building codes allow and privacy is intended, clear-story
windows may be incorporated into building designs and may count towards any
glazing requirement.
         10.   Accessory structures shall be similar and compatible to primary
multi-family structures and incorporate similar materials and colors. Carports
and other post type construction are exempt from the material requirement of
this standard but must be compatible in design and color.
      B.   Materials and Colors:
         1.   Quality, durable materials that add visual interest shall be used
in building design from the following basic groups: wood, masonry, concrete,
metal, and glazing.
         2.   A minimum of three (3) primary materials are required on all
front and rear façade elevations or facades exceeding forty (40) feet in
length. If an elevation is less than forty (40) feet in length, a minimum of
two (2) materials is required. A mix of material patterns of the same primary
material may count towards this requirement if used with distinct but cohesive
colors and meets all other material requirements of this section.
         3.   A minimum of two (2) colors is required along all façade
elevations as part of the primary color scheme.
         4.   An accent color and/or material is required along all façade
planes.
         5.   Smooth vinyl siding is prohibited. Textured vinyl siding (fiber
cement board, Hardie-board, etc., or similar) permitted provided it does not
exceed 50% of the facade area for each elevation. When vinyl siding is used, a
mix of material patterns is encouraged including, but not limited to: board and
batten, horizontal and vertical lap, shake, or shingles.
         6.   Consistent material and color combinations should be used
throughout the project site to contribute to a cohesive community design.
         7.   Primary materials and accent materials shall be distinguished
through pattern, texture, or additional detail. Alternate masonry or material
courses may count towards this.
         8.   Untextured concrete panels and prefabricated steel panels (i.e.
non-insulated metal siding) are prohibited as primary façade materials but may
be used as an accent material.
      C.   Rooflines:
         1.   Modulate and articulate roof forms to create building profile
interest and to reduce the appearance of building mass and scale.
         2.   Provide variations in roof profile including, but not limited to,
at least two of the following: two or more visible roof planes; dormers,
lookout, turret, gables, towers, or cornice work, spaced consistently along the
façade plane. The maximum roof length without variation(s) shall be 75 feet.
         3.   Qualifying roofline variations shall be a minimum 1-foot in
height.
         4.   Any rooftop mechanical equipment shall be screened from view of
any public rights-of-way or existing single-family residential by a concealing
roofline, a terraced façade, or some other type of approved screening material.
      D.   Fencing:
         1.   Where site-obscuring fencing or screening is required, chain link
fencing or chain link fencing with slats is prohibited as a qualifying fencing
material.
         2.   All other fencing proposed shall be of durable material and
maintained in a clean and weather protected manner.
      E.   Lighting: Lighting design should consider the appropriate placement
and quantity flight to provide for security and aesthetic appreciation while
avoiding glare and excessive brightness as follows:
         1.   Lighting shall be directed toward the ground and include shields
to minimize any glare or light trespassing.
         2.   Light fixtures shall be consistent with other decorative hardware
on the multi-family buildings.
         3.   Lighting on buildings and along pedestrian walkways shall promote
safe pedestrian environments.
         4.   Lighting fixtures used to illuminate the parking and vehicle
circulation areas shall be no greater than twenty-five (25) feet in height,
downlit, and fully shielded.
         5.   No light trespassing above 0.1 foot-candles is permitted from any
parcel onto another. Light readings shall be measured at a height of five (5)
feet above grade and in a plane at any angle of inclination. (Ord. 3672, 4-21-
2025)
TITLE 11: SUBDIVISIONS
   Chapter
      
1.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
2.   PROCEDURES FOR AND CONTENTS OF PLATS
      
3.   DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS
      
4.   REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
      
5.   SPECIAL SUBDIVISIONS OR PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
      
6.   VACATIONS OF SUBDIVISIONS
      
7.   ENFORCEMENT, AMENDMENTS AND CONFLICTING PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
11-01-01   Short title
   
11-01-02   Purpose and authority
   
11-01-03   Applicability
   
11-01-04   Definitions
§ 11-01-01 SHORT TITLE.
   This title shall be known and may be cited as the Caldwell Subdivision
Ordinance.
(Ord. 2768, passed 4-20-2009)
§ 11-01-02 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   By authority of Idaho Code Title 67, Chapter 65 and Title 50, Chapter
13, as amended, and Article 12, § 2 of the State Constitution, and in order to
promote the public health, safety and general welfare of present and future
residents, and to bring about a coordinated and efficient development of the
city, the following regulations contained in this title for the subdividing of
land within the city and the city impact area are hereby adopted. These
regulations provide for, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Harmonious development of the city;
      (2)   Coordination of new and extending streets and utilities within
subdivisions with other existing or planned streets and utilities;
      (3)   Conservation of or provisions for adequate transportation, water,
drainage and sanitary facilities;
      (4)   Avoidance of population congestion and of scattered subdividing of
land as would involve danger or injury to health, safety or general welfare by
reason of:
         (a)   Lack of water supply, drainage, sewer/sanitary facilities,
transportation or other public services; or
         (b)   Unnecessary imposition of an excessive expenditure of public
funds for the supply of such services.
      (5)   Requirements as to the extent and the manner in which:
         (a)   Streets shall be created and improved;
         (b)   Water and sewer and other utility mains, piping connections or
other facilities shall be installed as conditions precedent to the submittal
and approval of final plats or building permit applications; and
         (c)   Traffic shall be mitigated.
      (6)   Manner and form of making and filing of any plat;
      (7)   Manner of processing property boundary and lot line adjustments;
and
      (8)   Administration of these regulations by defining the powers and
duties of approval authorities, including procedures for the equitable and
timely review and approval of all plats of subdivisions covered by these
provisions.
   (B)   The provisions of Title 10 of this code, “Caldwell Supplemental
Specifications to the Idaho Standards for Public Works Construction,” the city
transportation master plan, “State Standards For Public Works Construction,”
“city code” as defined herein, “Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices”
(hereinafter referred to as MUTCD) and the “Caldwell Stormwater Management
Manual,” all as amended, revised and compiled and all subsequent adopted
updates, shall be and the same hereby are, adopted and incorporated by
reference herein and apply to all subdivisions and/or planned unit developments
in the city and in the city’s area of impact.
   (C)   (1)   For the purpose of this title, the Commission shall have the
following duties:
         (a)   Initiate proposed amendments to this title and conduct
appropriate reviews of this complete title;
         (b)   Review proposed amendments to this title and make
recommendations to the Council;
         (c)   Review planned unit developments that are part of a preliminary
plat, preliminary plat requests, comprehensive plan changes, comprehensive plan
map changes, annexation and rezone requests and make recommendations to the
Council;
         (d)   Grant special use permits and planned unit development requests,
when said planned unit development requests are not part of a preliminary plat,
as specified, with such additional safeguards as will uphold the intent of this
title. Planned unit development requests as part of a preliminary plat request
are reviewed by the Commission in conjunction with the preliminary plat request
and a recommendation to the Council is made by the Commission for planned unit
development/preliminary plat request;
         (e)   Hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error in
any order, requirement, decision, interpretation or determination made by the
Planning and Zoning Director;
         (f)   Grant such variances from the terms of this title that will not
conflict with the public interest, be materially detrimental to the public
health, safety or welfare, or be injurious to the property or improvements of
adjacent property owners; and
         (g)   Review annexation requests and make recommendations to the
Council.
      (2)   A hearing examiner may be appointed by the City Council. Pursuant
to Idaho Code § 67-6520, the hearing examiner shall have the same authority as
the Planning and Zoning Commission to hear requests for special use permits,
variances, subdivision plats, planned unit developments and rezones. The
hearing examiner shall be a planner, engineer, architect or other
professionally trained person and shall have significant experience in the
field of planning and zoning. The hearing examiner may be dismissed by a
majority vote of the City Council.
      (3)   The City Council may elect, at any time it deems necessary, to
suspend the authority and duties of the Planning and Zoning Commission or
hearing examiner, or act in full authority and exercise all of the powers
required and authorized by Idaho Code Title 67, Chapter 65 in place of the
Planning and Zoning Commission or hearing examiner.
   (D)   The Council shall appoint a Planning and Zoning Director who shall be
responsible for enforcing and administering this title. The Planning and Zoning
Director may be provided with the assistance of such other persons as the
Council may direct. For the purpose of this title, the Planning and Zoning
Director shall have the following duties:
      (1)   Interpret and administer this title. The Director shall have the
authority to order, in writing, the remedy of any condition found to be in
violation of this title or of any permit approved under the provisions of this
title. Any person aggrieved by a decision made by the Director in interpreting
or enforcing this title may appeal such decision to City Council. Such appeal
shall be heard following the public hearing requirements set forth in §
10-03-12 of the zoning regulations;
      (2)   Assist the public and advise interested persons of zoning
provisions;
      (3)   Notify the news media regarding matters of public interest;
      (4)   Aid applicants in the preparation and expedition of required
applications;
      (5)   Grant variances, as an administrative determination, of up to 20%
from any numerical standard of the following requirements: structure height,
front yard setback, rear yard setback, interior yard side setback, street side
yard setback, lot size, frontage requirement and/or parking space.
         (a)   At least 15 calendar days prior to rendering a decision to grant
or deny an administrative determination, notice shall be mailed to the
applicant and to property owners or purchasers of record adjoining the subject
property.
         (b)   Within five calendar days of the date of decision the Planning
and Zoning Director shall mail notice of the decision granting or denying the
application to those previously notified of the pending application.
      (6)   Assist the Commission and Council in carrying out the provisions of
this title.
(Ord. 2768, passed 4-20-2009; Ord. 2811, passed 11-2-2009; Ord. 3449, passed 9-
15-2022; Ord. 3576, passed 3-19-2024)
§ 11-01-03 APPLICABILITY.
   These regulations shall apply to the subdividing of land and/or planned unit
developments within the corporate limits of the city and property within the
city’s area of impact, or as mutually defined by both the city and the county
under the requirements of Idaho Code § 67-6526, and shall include the
following.
   (A)   Subdivision. The subdivision of a tract of land into more than four
lots, parcels or sites for transfer of ownership or development, whether
immediate or future. Any subdivision of said tract shall require the filing and
recordation of a final plat in accordance with the provisions of this title.
   (B)   Resubdivision. The resubdividing of at least one existing platted lot,
regardless of the existing plat date, into more than one platted lot.
   (C)   Development of condominium projects.
      (1)   The provisions of the Condominium Property Act, as provided in
Idaho Code Title 55, Chapter 15, as amended, revised and compiled, and the
provisions of
Title 10 of this code, as amended, revised and compiled shall be, and the same
hereby are, adopted and incorporated by reference herein.
      (2)   Condominium development and subdivision of land(s) may occur within
the same plat. This shall also include dedication of public right-of-way and
all standard improvements as outlined in this title.
      (3)   Each condominium unit shall be provided ingress and egress either
over common area or by an easement which shall be delineated on the plat and
defined in the recorded condominium declarations with a note on the plat
stating that the condominium declarations provide ingress and egress easements
for the units.
      (4)   If the condominium building permits have been approved, the short
plat process may be followed provided the project meets all qualifications for
the short plat process, except that the number of buildable lots may exceed
four. If the project does not qualify for the short plat process, the regular
platting process shall be followed.
   (D)   Subdivisions in the area of impact.
      (1)   Subdivisions outside of the corporate limits and within the city’s
area of impact shall be reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Department, the
Engineering Department and the Fire Department for conformance to city code.
The Planning and Zoning Department and Engineering Department will provide
comments and recommendations to the county for consideration and shall be
considered for approval by Council on the consent agenda once it has been
determined by appropriate city staff that the subdivision is in conformance
with city code.
      (2)   New subdivisions which are contiguous to city limits and meet the
criteria for annexation as set forth in Idaho Code § 50-222 shall be annexed
and developed to city standards.
      (3)   Where land is subdivided into large lots (one acre or more), the
lots shall be divided, where feasible, to allow for future division into
smaller lots. Lot arrangements shall allow for the ultimate extension of
adjacent streets through the middle of wide blocks.
   (E)   Exceptions to platting.
      (1)   Property boundary or lot line adjustments. An adjustment of
property boundaries or lot lines which does not reduce the area, width, depth
or building setback lines below the minimum required in
Title 10 of this code and which does not create more parcels or lots than
existed prior to the property boundary or lot line adjustment. A property
boundary adjustment does not vacate platted lot lines or easements of a
recorded subdivision, nor does it vacate any right-of-way or move any easements
or rights-of-way. A lot line adjustment does not vacate platted lot lines or
easements of a recorded subdivision, nor does it vacate any right-of-way or
move any easements or rights-of-way. The following procedures shall be followed
for a property boundary or lot line adjustment.
         (a)   The applicable application shall be obtained from the Planning
and Zoning Department and submitted for processing along with all required
attachments as stated on said application and the applicable fee as adopted by
Council through resolution.
         (b)   Upon tentative approval of the application by the Planning and
Zoning Department, the following tasks shall be completed within four months of
said tentative approval or said approval shall become null and void:
            1.   Cause the property to be boundary surveyed;
            2.   Submit a copy of the boundary survey map and all resulting
legal descriptions to the Planning and Zoning Department for review by said
Department, in consultation with the Engineering Department, to ensure
compliance with the tentative approval, prior to recordation;
            3.   Upon receiving final approval from the Planning and Zoning
Department, have the record of survey recorded and execute and record the
necessary deeds to accomplish the property boundary or lot line adjustments as
approved by the Planning and Zoning Department; and
            4.   Provide copies of the recorded record of survey and recorded
deeds to the Planning and Zoning Department.
         (c)   Upon receipt of copies of the recorded record of survey and
recorded deeds, a zoning compliance letter shall be issued. A copy of said
letter shall be submitted with any subsequent building permit applications for
the properties.
         (d)   A property boundary or lot line adjustment shall not/cannot
change or move any public streets or dedicated areas in any manner.
         (e)   A property boundary or lot line adjustment shall not/cannot
increase the original number of properties and may decrease the original number
of properties.
         (f)   A property boundary or lot line adjustment shall not reduce the
property size below the minimum dimensional standards prescribed by
Title 10 of this code; or if one or more of the properties is nonconforming as
to the minimum dimensional standards prescribed by said Title 10 of this code,
the property boundary or lot line adjustment shall not increase the
nonconformity.
         (g)   No applications for property boundary or lot line adjustments
shall be accepted for processing if there are any city code violations on the
subject property.
      (2)   Unwilling sale of land. The unwilling sale of land as a result of
legal condemnation as defined and allowed in the state code and the United
States Constitution and when the dedication of right-of-way for public purposes
is initiated or requested either formally or informally by a public body.
      (3)   Acquisition of right-of-way by public agency. The acquisition of
street rights-of-way by a public agency.
      (4)   Acquisition of land for public facilities. The acquisition of land
for purposes of constructing essential public facilities.
      (5)   Simple lot splits.
         (a)   Any person requesting to divide any original lot, parcel or site
that is divided into four or fewer lots, parcels or sites for transfer of
ownership or development, whether immediate or future, through the application
for a simple lot split. An original lot, parcel or site is defined as one that
was in existence in its current configuration as of March 18, 2013, and one
that is not a platted lot in a subdivision that was platted any time after
December 31, 2000. Additionally, all resulting lots or parcels shall meet all
applicable zoning, lot size, lot density and setback requirements.
         (b)   The following procedures shall be followed for a simple lot
split.
            1.   The applicable application shall be obtained from the Planning
and Zoning Department and submitted for processing along with all required
attachments as stated on said application and the applicable fee as adopted by
Council through resolution.
            2.   Tentative approval needs to be issued by the Planning and
Zoning Department and the Public Works Department before the application
process can go any further. All portions of
Title 10 of this code will be considered for tentative approval, including lot
sizes and dimensions, lot density, land use and setback requirements.
Additionally, all rights-of-way required as shown on the currently adopted
roadway classification map shall be identified for dedication.
            3.   Upon tentative approval of the application by the Planning and
Zoning Department, the following tasks shall be completed within four months of
said tentative approval or said approval shall become null and void:
               a.   Cause the property to be boundary surveyed;
               b.   Submit a copy of the boundary survey map and all resulting
legal descriptions to the Planning and Zoning Department for review by said
Department, in consultation with the Engineering Department, to ensure
compliance with the tentative approval, prior to recordation of either the
survey map or the new deeds;
               c.   Upon receiving final approval from the Planning and Zoning
Department, have the record of survey recorded and execute and record the
necessary deeds to accomplish the simple lot split and any associated right-of-
way dedications as approved by the Planning and Zoning and Public Works
Departments. The requirement for the dedication of rights-of-way may be waived,
in writing, by the Director of Public Works or City Engineer in the event the
requirement is disproportionate to the impact of the proposed lot split. A
written decision of the Director of Public Works or City Engineer denying such
a waiver may be appealed to the City Council by submission of a letter by the
applicant to the City Clerk within 14 days of the receipt of said written
decision; and
               d.   Provide copies of the recorded record of survey and
recorded deeds to the Planning and Zoning Department. Upon receipt of said
documents, the Planning and Zoning Department will issue a zoning compliance
letter for each resulting lot or parcel. Zoning compliance letters should
always accompany building permit applications as proof that the lot or parcel
is buildable.
      (6)   Administrative lot split.
         (a)   Where a parcel is being divided by a right-of-way dedication,
such dedication shall be achieved through an administrative lot split. For the
purposes of this dedication, the requirement for the parcel to be in its
original configuration as specified in division (E)(5) above is not applicable,
and the administrative lot split will not count towards and negate the ability
to do a simple lot split on the subject parcels in the future. All resulting
lots or parcels shall meet all applicable zoning, lot size, lot density and
setback requirements.
         (b)   Lots or parcels divided by public right-of-way, in existence
prior to the date of the adoption of this division (E)(6), are not required to
perform an administrative lot split. An existing lot or parcel divided by a
right-of-way may request to split the divided lots or parcels in order to
create legal parcels for the purpose of development and/or the sale of one or
more of the lots or parcels. For the purposes of this division (E)(6), an
approved administrative lot split will not count towards and negate the ability
to do a simple lot split on the subject parcels in the future. All resulting
lots or parcels shall meet all applicable zoning, lot size, lot density and
setback requirements.
(Ord. 2768, passed 4-20-2009; Ord. 2811, passed 11-2-2009; Ord. 2924, passed 4-
15-2013; Ord. 3576, passed 3-19-2024; Ord. 3673, passed 4-21-2025)
§ 11-01-04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENCY WITH JURISDICTION. Any agency which must review a subdivision plat
application.
   ALLEY. A public or private right-of-way primarily designed to serve as an
alternative access to the side or rear of properties. Not a street.
   BLOCK. A lot or group of lots entirely surrounded by public streets,
waterways, railroads or railroad rights-of-way, parks or a combination thereof.
   BUILDABLE. A lot or parcel that is eligible for one building permit,
exclusive of accessory structures, accessory buildings and remodels/repairs/
reconstruction to the original building, based on compliance with city code and
which is not encumbered by an easement, plat note or other restriction that
prohibits building on the lot or parcel.
   CITY CODE. The City of Caldwell city code as adopted by Council. In
addition, for purposes of this title, CITY CODE when referenced herein includes
all ordinances, policies, resolutions, standards, manuals, rules and
regulations as amended, revised and compiled and adopted by Council and shall
be, and the same hereby are, adopted and incorporated by reference herein.
   CITY COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The comprehensive plan, or parts thereof, providing
for future growth and improvement of the city and for general location and
coordination of streets, schools, recreation areas, public building sites,
other public facilities and other physical development, which shall have been
duly adopted by the Council.
   CITY ENGINEER. The City Engineer of the City of Caldwell.
   CITY SUPPLEMENTAL SPECIFICATIONS. Supplemental specifications and standards
to the “State Standards for Public Works Construction” for city infrastructure
as adopted by Council, including any subsequent adopted amendments.
   CITY TRANSPORTATION MASTER PLAN. A part of the city comprehensive plan which
provides for the development of a system of major and minor streets and
highways, including the location and alignment of existing and proposed
thoroughfares. (Also referred to as FUNCTIONAL CLASSIFICATION MAP or HIGHWAY
PLAN or HIGHWAY MASTER PLAN.)
   COMMISSION. The City of Caldwell Planning and Zoning Commission.
   COMMON AREA/LOT. Land within a subdivision, not individually owned or
dedicated for public use but rather owned by a homeowners’ or business owners’
association, which is designed and intended for the common use or enjoyment of
the residents of the subdivision to be operated and maintained by the
homeowners’ or business owners’ association. It may include complementary
structures and improvements.
   COMMON DRIVEWAY. Private driveway shared by residents or users of more than
one lot.
   CONDITIONAL APPROVAL. An affirmative action by the Commission or the hearing
examiner indicating that approval from the Council may be forthcoming upon the
satisfaction of certain specified stipulations.
   CONDOMINIUM. A unit available for sale in fee simple contained in a building
with more than one occupancy and subject to covenants and restrictions placing
control of the common areas/common lots to an elected board and platted as a
condominium plat as per the specifications of city code.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Caldwell.
   COUNTY RECORDER. The office of the County Recorder of Canyon County, Idaho.
   COUNTY SURVEYOR. The professional land surveyor(s) appointed by the County
Board of County Commissioners to check plats and make surveys, maps and plats
ordered by the County Board of County Commissioners.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A street connecting to another street at one end only, provided
with a permanent circular turnaround space at its terminus.
   DEAD END STREET. A street connecting to another street at one end only, not
having provision of vehicular turnaround at its terminus and not providing for
any future connectivity.
   DEDICATION. The setting apart of land or interests in land for use by the
public. Land becomes DEDICATED when accepted by the applicable governmental
body as a public dedication, either by ordinance, resolution or entry in the
official minutes of that body.
   DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT. Lots having frontage on two parallel streets.
   EASEMENT. A grant of one or more of the property rights by the property
owner to and/or for the use by the public, a corporation or another person.
   EMERGENCY ACCESS. A means of vehicular access, other than primary access, to
a subdivision or development for emergency services only, improved to city
standards and specifications.
   ENGINEERING PLANS. Plans, profiles, cross-sections and other required
details for the construction of public improvements or other required
improvements, prepared by a registered engineer, in accordance with the
approved preliminary plat and in compliance with any applicable development
agreements and/or conditions of approval, existing standards of design and
construction approved by the Council and also in compliance with city code,
regardless of details on an approved preliminary plat, unless stated otherwise
in the preliminary plat order of decision or development agreement.
   FINAL PLAT APPROVAL. Approval of the final plat by the Council, as evidenced
by certification on the plat by the City Clerk, and approval of the final plat
by the City Engineer as evidenced by his or her signature on said final plat,
all of which combined constitutes authorization from the city to record said
final plat.
   FIRE DEPARTMENT. The City Fire Department, which is also the City Rural Fire
Protection District.
   FLAG LOT. A lot having access to a public road via a narrow private
driveway, said driveway having a minimum width of 30 feet and a maximum length
of 150 feet. The minimum driveway width acts as the required frontage on a
public street, regardless of the frontage requirement in the underlying zoning
district.
   FLOODPLAIN. Defined by FEMA floodplain mapping as adopted by the city.
   FLOODPLAIN/WAY SUBDIVISION. Any subdivision or development with any portion
of land located within the floodplain or floodway.
   FLOODWAY. Defined by FEMA floodplain mapping as adopted by the city.
   FRONTAGE. The boundary of a lot along an existing or proposed public or
private street or alley. The minimum driveway width for a flag lot acts as the
required lot frontage, regardless of the frontage width requirement in the
underlying zoning district. Lots may have more than one FRONTAGE.
   FUTURE ACQUISITION MAP. A map adopted by the Council designating general
land areas proposed for acquisition for public facilities such as parks,
schools, fire stations, police stations, libraries, sewer facility areas, city
well areas or other public facilities.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The State Health or State District Health Department.
   HEARING EXAMINER. The city’s hearing examiner. Functions in the same
capacity as the Commission. Used interchangeably with Commission for purposes
of this title.
   HILLSIDE. Slopes exceeding 10%.
   IRRIGATION FACILITIES. Includes canals, laterals, ditches, conduits, gates,
pumps and allied equipment necessary for the supply, delivery and drainage of
irrigation water.
   LOT. A portion of a recorded subdivision intended as a unit for transfer of
ownership, either individual, business or common, or for development or
building.
      (1)   CORNER LOT. A lot abutting on two or more intersecting streets
where the interior angle of intersection does not exceed 135 degrees.
      (2)   INTERIOR LOT. A lot having but one side abutting on a street.
   LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines when
parallel or the average horizontal distance where front and rear lot lines are
not parallel.
   LOT WIDTH. If the side lot lines are parallel, the horizontal and
perpendicular distance between the side lot lines or the average horizontal
distance where front and rear lot lines are not parallel.
   OWNER. An individual, person or persons, firm, association, syndicate,
partnership or corporation having sufficient proprietary interest to seek
development or subdivision of land. The OWNER may assign, in writing,
application submittal and subdivision development authority to an applicant who
is not the OWNER. To the extent an owner is applying for subdivision of
property in its own name, such OWNER shall be the “applicant” for purposes of
this title.
   PARCEL. A tract or portion of land of not any precise size. Land other than
a platted lot. Sometimes called SECTION LAND, PARCELS are generally described
by a metes and bounds legal description, aliquot parts or references to
quadrangular survey measurements utilizing sections, townships and ranges or
government lots.
   PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION. The City Planning and Zoning Commission,
hereinafter referred to as “Commission.”
   PLAT. A map of a subdivision.
      (1)   FINAL PLAT. A map of all or part of a subdivision providing
substantial conformance to an approved preliminary plat and conformance to city
code, unless specifically granted as an exception through the planned unit
development process or a development agreement, prepared by a state licensed
land surveyor in accordance with this title and Idaho Code Title 50, Chapter
13.
      (2)   PRELIMINARY PLAT. A preliminary map, including supporting data,
indicating a proposed subdivision development, prepared in accordance with this
title and Idaho Code Title 50, Chapter 13.
      (3)   RECORDED PLAT. A final plat bearing all of the signed certificates
of approval required in this title and the state code and duly recorded in the
County Recorder’s office.
   PRESSURIZED IRRIGATION SYSTEM. A pressurized water distribution system that
distributes nonpotable water to land for irrigation purposes. Typical sources
of water include nontreated Boise River water, canal water, irrigation return
water or well water.
   REGULATORY TAKING. A regulatory or administrative action resulting in
deprivation of private property, that is the subject of such action, whether
such deprivation is total or partial, permanent or temporary, in violation of
the state or federal Constitution.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A portion of land dedicated or reserved for public use which
normally includes streets, sidewalks, utilities or other service functions.
   SANITARY RESTRICTION. The requirement that no building or shelter which will
require a water supply facility or a sewage disposal facility for people using
the premises where such building or shelter is located shall be erected until
written approval is first obtained from the State Department of Health and
Welfare by its Administrator or his or her delegate approving plans and
specifications either for public water and/or sewage facilities, or individual
parcel water and/or sewage facilities for the particular land.
   STREET. Any street, avenue, boulevard, road, lane, parkway, place, viaduct,
highway, thoroughfare, throughway, easement and other such terms for access, or
other way, which is an existing state, county or municipal roadway; or a street
or way shown in a plat heretofore approved pursuant to law or approved by
official action; or a street or way in a plat duly filed and recorded in the
County Recorder’s office within the right-of-way boundaries whether improved or
unimproved and may be comprised of pavement, shoulder, side slopes/cross
slopes, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, parking areas and lawns.
   STREET, ARTERIAL. Any street, existing or proposed, with a primary purpose
of carrying through traffic. A general term that, when referenced herein, shall
include expressways, major and minor arterial streets, interstates, state or
county highways and other arterial classifications having regional continuity.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. Any street, existing or proposed, with a primary purpose
to intercept traffic from integrating local streets and carrying that traffic
to an arterial street.
   STREET, FRONTAGE. A street parallel with and adjacent to an arterial street,
which has the primary purpose of providing access to abutting properties.
   STREET, HALF. A dedicated and improved right-of-way which provides only a
portion of the required street width.
   STREET, LOCAL. Any public street, other than an arterial or collector, which
provides access to abutting property and principally serves local traffic.
   STREET, LOOP. A local street which forms a loop and returns to the same
street from which it originated. A street forming a connection between two
other streets is not considered a LOOP.
   STREET, PRIVATE. An access roadway which provides both access and street
frontage for individual lots. PRIVATE STREETS are owned and maintained by
private individual(s) or entities and not by governmental entities.
   STREET, PUBLIC. A street right-of-way which provides street frontage and
vehicular and pedestrian access to adjacent properties, the dedication of which
has been officially accepted by the city.
   STREET, STUB. A street connecting to another street at one end only but
having provision for future connectivity and may or may not have a temporary
vehicular circular turnaround at its temporary terminus until such time that
connection is provided.
   SUBDIVIDER. An individual, corporation, business or other entity who
develops a subdivision. May or may not be the owner of the property. Also
referred to as DEVELOPER or APPLICANT.
   SUBDIVISION. The dividing of land into more than four parts for the purpose
of transfer of ownership or development or for the construction of
improvements, whether immediate or future, and as more fully described in this
title.
   SURVEYOR. A person authorized by the state to practice the profession of
land surveying.
   TRACT. A generic term that does not denote a specific condition such as lot
(which is platted) or parcel (which is unplatted). Used when speaking of both
platted and unplatted land.
   UTILITIES. Installations or facilities, underground or overhead, furnished
for the use of the public, electricity, gas, steam, communications, water,
drainage, sewage disposal, telephone, cable television, pressure irrigation and
similar facilities owned and operated by any person, firm, corporation,
municipal department or board duly authorized by state or municipal
regulations. UTILITY or UTILITIES as used herein may also refer to such
persons, firms, corporations, departments or boards, as applicable herein.
   VICINITY MAP. A small scale map showing the location of a tract of land in
relation to a larger area.
(Ord. 2768, passed 4-20-2009; Ord. 2924, passed 4-15-2013; Ord. 3673, passed 4-
21-2025)
CHAPTER 2: PROCEDURES FOR AND CONTENTS OF PLATS
Section
   
11-02-01   Procedures
   
11-02-02   Phased subdivisions
   
11-02-03   Review and hearings
   
11-02-04   Preliminary plat expirations, time extensions and renewals
   
11-02-05   Plat amendments and corrections
   
11-02-06   Changes to an approved subdivision name
§ 11-02-01 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Procedures; general.
      (1)   Plat approval is required, and a plat shall be drawn for each and
every subdivision of land located within the corporate city limits or the
city’s area of impact, or for proposed subdivision(s) containing land that is
concurrently requesting annexation into the city limits, and shall be submitted
to the Commission and Council as provided below. The city can accept a plat
application for property outside of corporate city limits when there is a
concurrent annexation request submitted.
      (2)   No plat applications shall be accepted for processing if any city
code violations exist on the subject property.
      (3)   No plat shall be filed with the County Recorder until such time as
compliance with the provisions of city code, the state code, certification and
acknowledgment of owners and certification of required agencies has been
completed. All plats shall be recorded in the County Recorder’s office.
      (4)   Preliminary plats submitted for approval shall be addressed through
the public hearing process by the Commission for a recommendation and Council
for a final decision.
      (5)   Final plats submitted for approval shall be addressed by the
Council as an item on the consent agenda.
      (6)   Any application for a preliminary plat, final plat, short plat,
property boundary adjustment, lot line adjustment or total or partial vacation
of an existing subdivision shall be made on forms obtainable from the Planning
and Zoning Department, and the accuracy of the data provided shall be
acknowledged by the applicant.
      (7)   (a)   Building permit applications shall not be accepted for
processing, nor shall any building permit be issued, for any tract or property
or portion of any tract or property contained within a subdivision plat or
within a subdivision plat that has been submitted to the Planning and Zoning
Department for processing, until the final plat for said subdivision plat has
been recorded in the County Recorder’s office.
         (b)   Except that should a parcel have an eligible building permit
available prior to platting, said available building permit may be obtained at
any time during the platting process but shall be held to all requirements of
city code and this title.
      (8)   Any application for any type of plat, planned unit development,
property boundary adjustment, lot line adjustment or plat vacation, and any
related rezone or annexation applications submitted concurrently with any of
the aforementioned applications, shall only be valid for six months from the
date of submittal. Should a final decision not be issued within that time frame
due to the applicant’s continued request for continuation or tabling, the
application(s) shall become null and void. No refunds shall be issued. Should a
final decision not be issued due to the Commission’s or Council’s requests for
continuations, tablings, negotiations or mediation, this requirement shall not
apply.
   (B)   Procedures; preapplication. Any person seeking approval of a
preliminary subdivision plat shall first conduct a neighborhood meeting in
accordance with §
10-03-12 of the zoning regulations.
   (C)   Procedures; application and contents, preliminary plat. The following
procedures shall apply to the filing of a preliminary plat application for
approval of any city subdivision.
      (1)   Application for preliminary plat. Any person desiring to subdivide
within the city shall file with a completed application, completed checklist
and all appropriate fees, with the Planning and Zoning Department on forms
prescribed by the Department, accompanied by such data and information
necessary to assure the fullest presentation of facts, as determined by the
Planning Director. The Director shall have the authority to require any
additional information or data necessary to aid in understanding and reviewing
the request.
      (2)   Proposed subdivision names. Proposed subdivision names shall be
reviewed and approved as an acceptable name by the city.
         (a)   Said name shall not be a duplicate name of any other recorded
subdivision within the county or any of the cities in the county.
         (b)   No changes to an approved subdivision name on a preliminary plat
shall occur unless a request is initiated through the filing of a subdivision
name change request application for administrative staff level review and
approval in accordance with §
11-02-06.
   (D)   Procedures; application and content, final plat. The following
procedures shall apply to the filing of a final plat application for approval
of any city subdivision.
      (1)   Final plat preparation. After the approval of the preliminary plat
by the Council, the applicant may cause the subdivision, or any part thereof,
to be surveyed and a final plat prepared in general accordance with the
preliminary plat as approved, notwithstanding any items on the preliminary plat
that did not meet city code and were not approved as exceptions.
      (2)   Acceptance of a final plat application. Final plat applications,
after having been prepared in accordance with state code requirements and the
provisions set forth herein, shall be submitted to the Planning and Zoning
Department in accordance with the following.
         (a)   Final plat applications shall be submitted to the Planning and
Zoning Department at the same time the application for review of construction
drawings has been submitted to the Engineering Department.
         (b)   In making application for a final plat, the applicant shall file
a completed final plat application, the number of copies of the final plat
required, by size as specified, a completed checklist and all appropriate fees
with the Planning and Zoning Department on forms prescribed by the Department,
accompanied by such data and information necessary to assure the fullest
presentation of facts, as determined by the Planning Director. The Director
shall have the authority to require any additional information or data
necessary to aid in understanding and reviewing the request. The submittal date
of all final plats and applications will be based on the date in which all
required documents have been received and reviewed by the city and all required
fees have been paid.
         (c)   Final plats shall be reviewed and heard by City Council as
outlined in §
11-02-03(B).
   (E)   Procedures; application and content, short plat.
      (1)   A subdivision application for property may be processed as a short
plat if all of the following exist:
         (a)   The proposed subdivision does not exceed four buildable lots;
         (b)   No right-of-way dedication is necessary as required by city
code;
         (c)   No installation of public improvements or infrastructure
improvements is necessary as required by city code;
         (d)   No street widening is necessary as required by city code; and
         (e)   There are no impacts on the health, safety or general welfare of
the city and the subdivision is in the best interest of the city.
      (2)   If the plat is a condominium plat application, it may be processed
as a short plat, regardless of the number of buildable lots and provided all
buildings have approved building permits; no right-of-way dedication is
necessary; no installation of public improvements or infrastructure
improvements is necessary; no street widening is necessary; and there are no
impacts on the health, safety or general welfare of the city and the
subdivision is in the best interest of the city.
      (3)   Contents for short plats shall follow preliminary and final plat
procedures as listed in this chapter, except that both the preliminary and
final plat shall be submitted concurrently rather than separately.
      (4)   Review and hearings for short plats shall be approved by City
Council with recommendation from Planning and Zoning and/or the City Engineer.
The preliminary and final plat shall be heard concurrently rather than
separately.
(Ord. 2768, passed 4-20-2009; Ord. 2811, passed 11-2-2009; Ord. 3576, passed 3-
19-2024)
§ 11-02-02 PHASED SUBDIVISIONS.
   The following provisions apply to phased subdivisions.
   (A)   Subdivisions with more than one phase are permitted provided the
proposed subdivision has a minimum total of 20 or more buildable lots if
residential, or two or more buildable lots if anything other than residential.
      (1)   Each phase shall consist of a minimum number of buildable lots,
whichever is the greatest, of: 20 buildable lots if residential or two
buildable lots if anything other than residential; or 10% of the total
buildable lots for the entire project.
      (2)   A phasing plan shall be submitted with the preliminary plat
application showing the total number of phases, total number of buildable lots
for the entire project and the total number of buildable lots in each phase.
   (B)   The subdivider may file and obtain acceptance of successive final
plats for continuous segments of the approved preliminary plat without
reapplication for preliminary plat approval, provided that:
      (1)   The final plat application for subsequent phases shall not be heard
by City Council until Council approval is received for the previous phase;
      (2)   The final plat for subsequent phases is recorded in successive
intervals of not more than two years each, as measured from the date of
recordation of the prior phase final plat; and
      (3)   The city code and any subsequent ordinance amendments as adopted by
the city before, during or after preliminary plat approval, is followed in all
design, engineering plans, construction and final plats for all phases, with
the exception of lot sizes, lot dimensions, setbacks, number of lots and any
exceptions approved at the time of preliminary platting, which shall remain as
indicated in the preliminary plat order of decision and/or development
agreement.
   (C)   In the event the approved phasing plan needs to be modified by adding
additional phases or increasing or decreasing the number of buildable lots
within a phase, a modified phasing plan shall be submitted to the Planning and
Zoning Department for administrative approval by the Planning and Zoning
Department in consultation with the Engineering Department.
(Ord. 3673, passed 4-21-2025)
§ 11-02-03 REVIEW AND HEARINGS.
   (A)   Preliminary plat review and hearings.
      (1)   City department review. The Planning and Zoning Department shall
transmit one copy of the application and preliminary plat to all applicable
city departments for review and comments.
      (2)   Public agency review. The Planning and Zoning Department shall
notify all political subdivisions providing services within the planning
jurisdiction, including school districts, in accordance with Idaho Code Title
67, Chapter 65 and §
10-03-12 of the zoning regulations.
      (3)   Agencies to receive preliminary plat. Some of the agencies which
receive copies of the preliminary plat may be as follows:
         (a)   School districts;
         (b)   Transportation agencies and highway districts;
         (c)   Utility, irrigation and drainage companies or districts;
         (d)   County, municipal, state and federal agencies; and
         (e)   Other agencies as determined by the Planning and Zoning
Department.
      (4)   Staff report. A staff report shall be prepared by the Planning and
Zoning Department and submitted to the applicant prior to the meeting at which
the preliminary plat is to be considered. The staff report shall, at a minimum,
list or summarize all agency and city department responses as well as provide a
comprehensive plan analysis, an analysis of compliance with city code and staff
recommended conditions.
      (5)   Preliminary plat hearings.
         (a)   Review. Once all departments have completed their review of the
preliminary plat, and after meeting all the requirements for public noticing in
accordance with this title, the Planning and Zoning Department shall place the
request for preliminary plat approval on the first available agenda for the
Commission to be heard through the public hearing process as outlined in §
10-03-12 of the zoning regulations.
         (b)   Commission action. The Commission shall recommend to the Council
approval, conditional approval or denial of the preliminary plat.
         (c)   Following an action of the Commission. The Planning and Zoning
Department shall place the request for preliminary plat approval on the
Council’s agenda to be heard through the public hearing process as outlined in
§
10-03-12 of the zoning regulations, once the Department has determined all
conditions that were required to be met prior to being heard by City Council,
have in fact been satisfied.
         (d)   City Council action. The City Council, prior to approving a
preliminary plat request, shall find and conclude the requests have met the
criteria identified below and shall make the express findings of such:
            1.   The plat is in compliance with city code;
            2.   The plat is consistent with the city comprehensive plan;
            3.   Public services and utilities are available or can be made
available and are adequate to accommodate the proposed subdivision;
            4.   The plat is consistent with the city transportation master
plan; and
            5.   The subdivision preserves natural, scenic or historic features
on the site that is being developed, if applicable.
   (B)   Final plat review and hearing.
      (1)   City department review. The Planning and Zoning Department shall
transmit one copy of the application and final plat to all applicable city
departments for review and comment.
      (2)   Public agency noticing. The Planning and Zoning Department shall
notify all political subdivisions providing services within the planning
jurisdiction, including school districts who will be impacted by any changes
that have been proposed from what was originally approved on the preliminary
plat.
      (3)   Order of decision. A final plat order of decision shall be prepared
by the Planning and Zoning Department which shall, at a minimum, list or
summarize all agency and city department responses as well as provide an
analysis of general compliance with the approved preliminary plat and
applicable development agreements and conditions of approval from applicable
orders of decision, as well as list recommended conditions of approval for the
final plat.
      (4)   Final plat approval, City Council.
         (a)   Upon completion of the final plat review, the Planning and
Zoning Department may thereafter place the final plat on the Council consent
agenda for consideration at the next regular meeting, along with the request
for dedication of sanitary sewer and domestic water facilities.
         (b)   Final plats shall not be considered by Council until
construction drawings have been reviewed and approved, and the Planning and
Zoning Department, in consultation with the Engineering Department, has
determined the final plat is compliant with city code as well as with the
approved preliminary plat.
         (c)   Approval, with conditions, of the final plat by Council shall be
dependent upon compliance with the city code and compliance with the approved
preliminary plat.
      (5)   Final plat signatures. The final plat will not be considered for
final signature until all of the following has been met, in addition to
compliance with all conditions of approval as specified within the signed
findings of fact, conclusions of law and order of decision for the final plat.
         (a)   All required improvements, infrastructure, public utilities,
public improvements and the like have been installed and conditions of approval
have been met and inspected and approved by the city, including all record
drawing requirements, submittal of engineer of record inspection logs,
submittal of the engineer of record certification and receipt of the dedication
request and a memo or e-mail from the Engineering Department has been issued
stating as much.
         (b)   The Engineering Department has approved the amount of the
financial guarantee as outlined in §
11-04-07(A) for required improvements and conditions of approval that have yet
to be completed and all of the following items have been completed by the
developer and inspected and approved by the Engineering Department and a memo
or e-mail from the Engineering Department has been issued stating as much:
            1.   Construction of the domestic water system, including
successful pressure and bacteria tests by the developer and inspection and
approval by the city;
            2.   Construction of the sanitary sewer system, including
successful pressure test, television camera inspection, completion of all work
within the base of the manholes by the developer and inspection and approval by
the city;
            3.   Construction of an all-weather road system by the developer
and inspection and approval by the city;
            4.   Installation of street signs by the developer and inspection
and approval by the City Engineer in consultation with the Fire Marshal;
            5.   Request by developer for dedication of all sanitary sewer and
domestic water facilities and submittal of applicable documentation as required
by the Engineering Department to process said request; and
            6.   Construction and testing of the irrigation system by the
developer and inspection and approval by the city, where applicable. Further,
the city must receive documentation requesting that the system be annexed into
the city municipal irrigation district if annexation is applicable. All
applicable fees must be submitted with the annexation request. Under
circumstances where seasonal restrictions prevent the total completion of said
irrigation system, the City Engineer may allow, at his or her sole discretion,
those portions of said system under seasonal restriction to be deferred until
the first available construction window. Any deferred portions shall be
included in the financial guarantee.
         (c)   The final plat shall not be signed by the City Engineer nor
released by the City Engineer for recording until the city has received the
financial guarantee in compliance with this title and Council has approved the
final plat.
      (6)   Final plat recording.
         (a)   A public pathway access easement (if applicable) must be
recorded and the instrument number included on the final recorded plat.
         (b)   Upon recordation of the final plat, all recorded subdivisions
shall be known and referred to by the city approved subdivision name, in all
permanent or temporary signage physically located on or near the location of
the subdivision and on all deeds and legal documents. This requirement shall
continue through the development of each phase of the subdivision and shall
survive completion of the subdivision unless a request is initiated through the
filing of a subdivision name change request application in accordance with §
11-02-06. No alternative, abbreviated or incomplete subdivision names, other
than the complete name identified in the recorded final plat, shall be
recognized by the city, except that a variation in the subdivision name
required by this title may be permitted for parcels within the subdivision that
are being developed solely for commercial or multi-family commercial
apartments, as approved by the city, and may be designed and constructed as
their own separate phases which do not have to follow the subdivision phasing
sequencing required by this title.
(Ord. 2768, passed 4-20-2009; Ord. 2811, passed 11-2-2009; Ord. 2983, passed
12-15-2014; Ord. 3328, passed 5-3-2021; Ord. 3576, passed 3-19-2024; Ord. 3673,
passed 4-21-2025)
§ 11-02-04 PRELIMINARY PLAT EXPIRATIONS, TIME EXTENSIONS AND RENEWALS.
   (A)   Plat expirations.
      (1)   Final plats must be submitted for approval within 24 months of the
date of signature on the approving order of decision for the preliminary plat.
      (2)   Final plats must be recorded for a single-phase development or for
the first phase of a multi-phase development within 24 months of City Council
approval of the final plat. For phased subdivisions, see §
11-02-02.
      (3)   The plat (final plat) must be recorded within 24 months of the date
of signature on the approving order of decision.
   (B)   Preliminary and/or final plat time extensions.
      (1)   Prior to the expiration date of a plat, an applicant may file for
an administrative time extension, by filing a completed application, checklist
and all appropriate fees, with the Planning and Zoning Department on forms
prescribed by the Department, accompanied by such data and information
necessary to assure the fullest presentation of facts, as determined by the
Planning Director. The Director shall have the authority to require any
additional information or data necessary to aid in understanding and reviewing
the request submitting an application to the Planning and Zoning Department.
      (2)   Time extensions of up to 24 months may be authorized by the
Planning and Zoning Director and City Engineer following applicant’s submittal
of an application. There shall be no limit to the number of time extensions
that may be approved so long as the plat is still valid and in conformance with
the approval criteria within division (B)(4) below.
      (3)   If an administrative time extension is denied, the applicant may
appeal the decision to the Council and follow the process as outlined in §
10-03-12 of the zoning regulations.
      (4)   Extension requests for plats shall be approved based upon the
following.
         (a)   The plat, as previously approved, is still in the best interests
of the safety, health and general welfare of the city.
         (b)   There have been no significant changes to the city code between
the date of plat approval and the application date of the time extension
request that would require substantial modifications.
         (c)   Any modification to the layout and design of the originally
approved plat are minimal.
         (d)   The plat still conforms with new or amended development master
plans, including, but not limited to, public facilities plans, pathways and
bike routes plans, parks and recreation master plans.
         (e)   The plat is still active and valid. If the plat is expired, the
applicant shall apply for a renewal in conjunction with the request for a time
extension and pay all the applicable fees for such renewal. Renewals will only
be granted if the plat meets the requirements of division (C) below.
         (f)   There are no outstanding city code violations on the subject
property or properties, to include any land use violations.
      (5)   The extension of a subdivision plat automatically extends the
approvals of all other applications associated with the plat such as a planned
unit development and special use permit.
   (C)   Plat renewals.
      (1)   One plat renewal of up to 18 months may be authorized by the
Planning and Zoning Director and City Engineer for all expired preliminary plat
approvals. No preliminary plat renewal shall be granted if there are any
outstanding city code violations on the subject property. The Planning and
Zoning Director and City Engineer shall consider approval of said renewal in
accordance with the criteria listed in division (B)(4) above.
      (2)   No renewal shall be granted for any plat that has been expired for
a period of time exceeding 12 months (if no development has occurred), or for a
period of time exceeding 24 months (if development has occurred), regardless of
when the original date of approval occurred for the preliminary plat.
(Ord. 3576, passed 3-19-2024; Ord. 3673, passed 4-21-2025)
§ 11-02-05 PLAT AMENDMENTS AND CORRECTIONS.
   (A)   Preliminary plat amendments. Changes to an approved preliminary plat
made prior to final plat approval and recording and incorporated within the
final plat design shall not require rehearing of the original preliminary plat
by the Planning and Zoning Commission or by City Council if the proposed design
change(s) does not:
      (1)   Reduce the lot size below the minimum approved on the preliminary
plat entitlement;
      (2)   Increase the number of buildable lots by more than 10% of the
original request, provided the number of dwelling units does not increase;
      (3)   Substantially alter the alignment of the subdivision’s ingress/
egress access points and/or connectivity of the subdivision’s roadway network
to a degree that would necessitate changes to the traffic impact study, or
adversely impact the original engineering conditions for the project;
      (4)   Substantially re-align the internal street network such that the
subdivision is effectively a new project, as determined by the Director or City
Engineer;
      (5)   Increase the exterior boundaries of the preliminary plat as already
approved;
      (6)   Reduce the square footage of common areas or the number of public
amenities below the levels approved through the public hearing process. Minor
modifications to the types and locations of amenities may be permitted as
determined by the Director; and
      (7)   Violate the terms of a development agreement.
   (B)   Plat corrections. Affidavits of correction prepared, signed and
stamped by a professional land surveyor which fully describes each error and
each correction to be made, by specific reference to the approved plat, may be
used to correct minor errors on a previously approved final plat, including,
but not limited to:
      (1)   Typographical and spelling errors or transpositions;
      (2)   Minor changes to mapping;
      (3)   Incorrect seal;
      (4)   Incorrect dates;
      (5)   Monumentation incorrectly noted or drawn;
      (6)   Incorrect or missing interior dimensions on the drawing;
      (7)   Missing or incorrectly displayed arrows, graphic scales or symbols;
      (8)   Changes to the names of streets or the name of the existing plat;
and
      (9)   Changes to the numbering scheme used for lots and/or blocks.
(Ord. 3576, passed 3-19-2024; Ord. 3673, passed 4-21-2025)
§ 11-02-06 CHANGES TO AN APPROVED SUBDIVISION NAME.
   No changes to an approved subdivision name shall occur unless a request is
initiated through the filing of an application for a subdivision name change
request and subsequently reviewed and approved by the Mapping and Planning and
Zoning Department, at an administrative staff level. In making application, the
applicant shall file a completed application with the Planning and Zoning
Department on forms prescribed by the Department accompanied by such data and
information necessary to assure the fullest presentation of facts, as
determined by the Planning Director.
   (A)   Name change requests; prior to final plat submission. If approved, an
amended preliminary plat will need to be submitted to the Planning and Zoning
Department with the reflected subdivision name change prior to the approval of
construction drawings. All construction drawings and final subdivision plats
shall reflect the new approved subdivision name.
   (B)   Name change requests; prior to final plat recording. If approved,
amended final plat drawings and Mylars will need to be submitted to the
Planning and Zoning Department with the reflected subdivision name change prior
to signature of the final plat.
   (C)   Name change requests; after final plat recording. If approved, an
amended final plat drawing indicating the new subdivision name or an affidavit
of correction indicating that the plat is otherwise known as “insert the new
approved subdivision name,” shall be recorded at the County Recorder’s office.
Once the plat or affidavit is recorded, a copy of the recorded plat or
affidavit shall be provided to the Planning and Zoning Department.
   (D)   Violation. Owners and developers acting in violation of this section
shall be subject to the administrative citation process outlined in §
10-03-10 of the zoning regulations.
(Ord. 3576, passed 3-19-2024)
CHAPTER 3: DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS
Section
   
11-03-01   General details
   
11-03-02   Street requirements
   
11-03-03   Block requirements
   
11-03-04   Lot requirements
   
11-03-05   Easement requirements
§ 11-03-01 GENERAL DETAILS.
   (A)   Conform to standards. Every phase of all subdivisions and planned unit
developments shall conform to the standards of the adopted comprehensive plan,
the zoning regulations of the city, city code as well as all subsequent adopted
updates and amendments to city code unless exceptions were granted by Council
and listed in the order of decision for the preliminary plat and/or development
agreement; also excepting lot sizes, lot dimensions, setbacks and number of
lots which shall remain as indicated in the preliminary order of decision and/
or development agreement.
   (B)   Specifications and/or standards adopted. The city has adopted
specifications and details of the “Idaho Standards for Public Works
Construction” (hereinafter referred to as ISPWC) as standards for construction
and design within the impact area and city limits and shall adopt later
editions of ISPWC by resolution. These standards are augmented by general
addenda, including city supplemental specifications (hereinafter referred to as
CSS), approved by resolution of the Council as necessary, to ensure uniform
material selection and construction practice for those items specific to the
city.
(Ord. 2768, passed 4-20-2009)
§ 11-03-02 STREET REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Design and construction conformance. The design and construction of
all streets and alleys shall conform to requirements of the city transportation
master plan, “Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices” (hereinafter referred
to as MUTCD), ISPWC and CSS.
   (B)   Partial street dedications. Partial street dedications shall not be
permitted unless the street forms the boundary of the property being
subdivided, the adjacent property is not under common ownership, or the street
is anticipated to be a through street upon development of adjacent properties.
All partial street dedications shall require construction of partial street
sections of no less than 26 feet in width from centerline to back of curb that
meet the requirements of the city transportation master plan, ISPWC and CSS.
When the property abutting the partial street develops, the owner of that
property shall be required to complete the construction of the street section,
mirroring the street section and right-of-way of the already constructed
original portion, including dedication of any additional right-of-way required
by the city.
   (C)   Dead end and stub streets. Dead end streets are prohibited. Stub
streets may be allowed when said stub street and its extension is shown on the
city transportation master plan or when, in the opinion of the Planning and
Zoning Director and City Engineer, the future extension of said stub street is
feasible and necessary to the proper development of the street pattern. All
stub streets authorized by this title shall be clearly marked by signage at the
end of the stub street to indicate that such street is planned to be extended
in the future.
   (D)   Continuation of existing street. Proposed streets which are a
continuation of an existing street shall be given the same name as the existing
street, except that the proposed street shall carry the correct street
designation (street, drive, avenue, way and the like) even though the existing
street designation may be incorrect.
   (E)   Street naming. All street naming shall be in accordance with
Title 5 of this code.
   (F)   Frontage streets and cross access. Where a subdivision/development
abuts or contains an existing or proposed arterial street, railroad or limited
access highway, the City Engineer may require frontage streets, or such other
treatment for the appropriate use of the tract. Cross access on the subject
property in the absence of frontage streets along higher level arterials in
commercial development shall be required to provide continuous public cross
access to both the subject property and adjacent development.
   (G)   Connectivity. A minimum of one street connection for vehicular
connectivity shall be provided to all adjacent properties for all subdivisions/
developments, at appropriate locations as determined by the Engineering
Department, Fire Department and Planning and Zoning Department, excepting that
this condition may be waived by the Engineering Department and Planning and
Zoning Department as a joint decision, or by Council if topography, geography,
dimensions or size of the subdivision/development are such that no connectivity
is warranted or feasible. Additionally, in the event an adjacent property has
already developed and did not have provision for connectivity, the connectivity
requirement may be waived for the new project in that specific direction only.
   (H)   Loop streets. Loop streets shall be limited to a maximum length of 600
feet measured along the centerline of the street from the centerline
intersection to centerline intersection. Loop streets are permitted on a case-
by-case basis and are subject to review and approval by both the Fire
Department and the Engineering Department. The Fire Department discourages the
use of loop streets.
   (I)   Emergency service vehicle accessibility. The following street
distances, configurations, specifications and related items are required to
satisfy accessibility to subdivisions and planned unit developments by
emergency services vehicles.
      (1)   A cul-de-sac, court or similar type street may be permitted
provided the maximum length for such street shall not exceed 600 feet as
measured from the centerline intersection of such street and the street from
which such street takes access to the center of the cul-de-sac turnaround.
      (2)   Cul-de-sac turnarounds must meet Fire Department approval as
referenced in International Fire Code Appendix D.
      (3)   The length of any driveway, regardless of use or zone, shall not
exceed 150 feet unless the subdivider has received Fire Department approval.
      (4)   Minimum driveway widths shall be 20 feet. Landscaping shall be
installed so as to protect a clear height of 13 feet six inches within the
required 20-foot width.
      (5)   (a)   Primary and emergency access shall be required as approved by
the Fire Department, which may approve other mitigation in lieu of emergency
access, for all subdivisions and planned unit developments.
         (b)   If the development contemplates emergency access by means of
streets to be constructed in future phases and provides interim emergency
access improved to Fire Department standards for temporary access over a
temporary emergency access easement which is irrevocable until such future
streets are dedicated and constructed, the emergency access requirement shall
be considered to be met.
      (6)   Primary and emergency accesses, for Fire Department purposes, shall
be constructed to the following minimum standards (which do not preclude more
restrictive minimum standards as set forth by the Engineering Department or
another state or federal agency).
         (a)   Minimum width of 20 feet with a minimum inside turning radius of
28 feet, minimum outside turning radius of 48 feet and maximum grade of 10%.
         (b)   Surface shall be improved with an all-weather surface meeting
the Fire Department standards and capable of supporting two-axled vehicles
weighing 80,000 pounds.
         (c)   Emergency accesses for emergency purposes only shall not be open
to general vehicular travel and shall be provided with removable bollards,
gates or other means approved by the Fire Department to restrict general
vehicular access. Such emergency accesses may serve as pedestrian and bicycle
pathways.
         (d)   Applicant shall construct required emergency accesses prior to
submittal of the final plat application.
         (e)   Emergency access easements located within the plat shall be
delineated on the face of the final plat. The applicant shall provide covenants
for the maintenance of any emergency access by a homeowners’ or business
owners’ association or other as approved by the Fire Department.
         (f)   Emergency access easements located outside the plat shall be by
permanent recorded easements which shall contain covenants for maintenance
acceptable to the Fire Department. Said easements shall be recorded and a copy
submitted with the final plat application along with a draft of said covenants.
   (J)   Minimum right-of-way widths. Minimum required right-of-way widths as
per CSS.
   (K)   Minimum street widths and sections. Minimum street widths and street
sections as per CSS.
   (L)   Street grades. Street grades shall be as per CSS.
   (M)   Street and approach design and construction. All curves, street
alignments, approach spacing, street design and construction and approach
design and construction shall be as per CSS, city transportation master plan
and city access control standards for state administered highways and city
administered surface streets.
   (N)   Common driveways.
      (1)   (a)   Common driveways shall be a minimum of 24 feet in width,
shall meet all applicable Fire Code requirements and shall serve no more than
six residential units and no more than three commercial or industrial lots.
         (b)   Where city owned utilities are constructed within the common
driveway, the driveway shall be constructed with an asphaltic concrete surface;
Portland cement is not permitted as the surface material. The driveway, at a
minimum, shall match the width of any required utility easements.
      (2)   Common driveways shall be a maximum of 150 feet in length.
      (3)   Common driveways shall be paved with a surface with the capability
of supporting two-axled vehicles and fire equipment, at a minimum 75,000
pounds.
      (4)   Unless limited by a significant geographical feature, or separated
by a minimum five-foot-wide landscaped common lot, all lots that abut a common
driveway shall take access from the driveway not the public street.
      (5)   Common driveways shall be straight or provide a minimum 28-foot
inside and 48-foot outside turning radius.
      (6)   For any lots using a common driveway, the setbacks, dimensioned
building envelope and orientation of the lots and structures to the driveway
shall be shown on the preliminary plat for those lots and as an exhibit with
the final plat application.
      (7)   Common driveways shall not require curb, gutter or sidewalks on
either side of the length of the common driveway by default, but they may be
required on one side of a common driveway as a condition of development.
      (8)   Common driveways shall be identified and platted as common lots to
be owned and maintained by a homeowners’ or business owners’ association or as
perpetual ingress-egress easements to be maintained by a homeowners’ or
business owners’ association and shall be so indicated by note on the final
plat.
      (9)   No parking shall be permitted on common driveways.
      (10)   The public street frontage requirement for lots utilizing a common
driveway is not applicable. Lots utilizing a common driveway shall be addressed
pursuant to §
05-07-05.
   (O)   Private streets.
      (1)   Where permitted. Private streets may only be permitted as described
herein:
         (a)   Within developments that are wholly commercial or industrial in
use or that are a mixture of commercial and industrial; and
         (b)   Within multi-family developments as described herein:
            1.   Within a multi-family development under single ownership and
not considered a subdivision as defined within this code;
            2.   Within a mixed-use development which has a portion of the
development being developed as multi-family. In this scenario, private streets
may only be allowed within the area being developed as multi-family; and
            3.   Within a subdivided multi-family project, or multi-family
portion of a mixed-use development. Subdivider shall establish an agreement
specifying that the private streets are to be owned and maintained by the
homeowners’ association. A copy of said agreement shall be provided to the
city.
      (2)   General construction and design requirements.
         (a)   All private street construction shall be in accordance with city
supplemental specifications structural standards for base course and asphaltic
concrete mat thickness. The design shall be prepared and certified by a
registered professional engineer.
         (b)   The minimum width of private streets shall be 24 feet.
         (c)   Curbs, gutter and sidewalks shall not be required unless
specifically required by Council.
         (d)   Maintenance of private streets shall take place through a
business owners’ association and shall be so noted on a final plat.
         (e)   Private streets shall be designated as either perpetual
easements or common lots and shall be platted as one or the other.
         (f)   Private streets shall be labeled “private street” within the
area of the private street on the final plat.
         (g)   It shall be noted on the final plat that private streets are not
the responsibility of the city and should landowners ever desire city
maintenance of said streets, said private streets would have to be brought up
to city standards which would include, at a minimum, curb, gutter, asphalt
paving, subsurfacing, sidewalk and storm drainage, all inspected and accepted
by the city.
         (h)   It shall be noted on the final plat that, if there are any
utilities located within the private streets, a utility easement shall be
platted and any required maintenance or repair to the utility within the
utility easement shall take place regardless of any potential damage or
destruction to the street as a consequence of the utility maintenance or repair
and repair or replacement shall not be the responsibility of the utility or the
city nor shall the utility or the city be held liable for any damage to the
street due to utility maintenance or repair.
(Ord. 2768, passed 4-20-2009; Ord. 2811, passed 11-2-2009; Ord. 3379, passed
12-20-2021; Ord. 3576, passed 3-19-2024; Ord. 3673, passed 4-21-2025)
§ 11-03-03 BLOCK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Block numbers shall be designated as required by the state code.
   (B)   Block lengths shall not exceed 600 feet as measured along the street
centerline from centerline intersection to centerline intersection in all
subdivisions that are wholly or partially residential in use excepting the
following.
      (1)   In the RS-1 and RS-2 Zoning Districts, block lengths shall not
exceed 1,200 feet as measured along the street centerline from centerline
intersection to centerline intersection.
      (2)   Commercial and industrial subdivisions shall not have a maximum
block length.
      (3)   The project is a planned unit development and an exception from the
maximum block length has been requested and granted, as part of the
application.
(Ord. 2768, passed 4-20-2009)
§ 11-03-04 LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Lot size or area, width, frontage and minimum setback lines for
buildable lots shall comply with the minimum requirements of the zoning
regulations of the city as stated in
Title 10 of this code, unless stated otherwise in this title.
   (B)   Double frontage lots are prohibited. Installation of a minimum five-
foot-wide street landscape buffer, said buffer complying with street landscape
buffer requirements, except width, as stated in
Title 10 of this code, and designated as a common lot, shall serve to eliminate
double frontage.
   (C)   No individual buildable lot or individual common lot shall have direct
access to or from any classified street, regardless of zoning district or use.
There is no exception to this, unless the lot is for a school or is commercial
or industrial in zone or use, in which case, the City Engineer shall consider
direct access on a case-by-case basis taking into account the city
transportation master plan, the traffic impact study and public safety.
   (D)   Flag lots, as herein defined, are permitted provided all other
provisions of city code are met. Only one primary dwelling or building is
permitted per flag lot, excluding accessory buildings.
   (E)   Alley loaded lots are permitted as follows:
      (1)   An alley with a minimum width of 24 feet, and built to city
specifications with a half width street section of ten feet of paving from
centerline to a two-foot width of rolled curb and gutter, is provided at the
rear of such lots to provide direct lot access. Sidewalks are not required. The
alley shall be the only means allowed for access;
      (2)   “No parking” signage is placed on both sides of the alley and no
parking is ever allowed. Additionally, curbing shall either be painted red or
red dye shall be installed in the concrete to further prohibit parking;
      (3)   Direct lot access to any classified street is prohibited and a note
shall be placed on the final plat stating such;
      (4)   Alley loaded lots, as herein outlined and permitted, shall not be
considered double frontage lots for purposes of this title; and
      (5)   Alley loaded lots and the “no parking” requirement along the alley
do not preclude the satisfaction of all city code parking requirements. On
street parking spaces that are lost due to the “no parking” requirement along
the alley shall be provided elsewhere in the project within at least 600 feet
of the block in which the alley loaded lots are located.
(Ord. 2768, passed 4-20-2009)
§ 11-03-05 EASEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A general utility, irrigation and drainage easement of a minimum ten
feet in width is required along all front and rear lot lines and shall be shown
and dedicated as such on the final plat.
   (B)   In certain instances as required by the City Engineer, a general
utility, irrigation and drainage easement of a minimum five feet in width shall
be required along interior lot lines and shall be shown and dedicated as such
on the final plat.
   (C)   All existing recorded easements, with width, use, dimensions and
bearings, shall be shown on final plats along with the applicable instrument
numbers. All proposed easements, with width, use, dimensions and bearings,
shall be shown on final plats.
   (D)   All utility lines on and within the boundaries of a subdivision shall
be underground.
(Ord. 2768, passed 4-20-2009; Ord. 2811, passed 11-2-2009)
CHAPTER 4: REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
Section
   
11-04-01   Purpose
   
11-04-02   Subdivider’s responsibility
   
11-04-03   Engineering plans
   
11-04-04   Construction and inspection
   
11-04-05   Required improvements; standards and specifications
   
11-04-06   Record drawings
   
11-04-07   Financial guarantees
§ 11-04-01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Define the responsibility of the subdivider in the planning, design,
construction, inspection and financing of required improvements;
   (B)   Establish procedures for review and approval of engineering plans and
subsequent construction and inspection process; and
   (C)   Outline minimum acceptable standards for improvements, including, but
not limited to, streets, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, alleys, easements, other
facilities required as a condition to plat approval.
(Ord. 2768, passed 4-20-2009)
§ 11-04-02 SUBDIVIDER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The subdivider, at his or her expense, has the responsibility of
designing, constructing and having inspected and approved all required
improvements to city specifications and standards.
   (B)   The subdivider has the responsibility of maintaining the subdivision
property in a nuisance free manner until such time that the subdivision is
turned over to a homeowners’ or business owners’ association. Maintenance shall
include the mowing of all weeds (said mowing to take place at least monthly
within the months of April, May, June, July, August, September and October)
within the subdivision boundaries and the immediate removal of noxious weeds
when they are identified, as well as the immediate removal of all loose, dead
and/or dying plant material which would include the mowed weed material. All
appropriate dust abatement procedures shall be applied as necessary for dust
mitigation during the entire development and construction process until build
out is complete, including watering of unpaved surfaces in regular use and the
application of dust inhibitors.
   (C)   At the time of development a “rules and regulations” sign shall be
posted and maintained at the entryways to the project until it is fully
developed and build out is complete. The signs would be intended for
subcontractors performing work and should include:
      (1)   No dogs;
      (2)   No loud music;
      (3)   No alcohol or drugs;
      (4)   No abusive language;
      (5)   Disposal of personal trash and site debris;
      (6)   Daily cleanup of any mud and/or dirt that is deposited from the
construction parcel onto streets;
      (7)   Installation of a temporary construction fence that would keep
debris from being blown off-site by the wind; and
      (8)   No burning of construction or other debris on the property.
   (D)   Coordinate with the United States Postal Office to determine the best
location for mailbox placement prior to preliminary plat approval. Mailbox
placement shall not be within any vision triangle area.
   (E)   In subdivisions containing residential uses, coordinate with the local
school bus company to determine a detailed school bus stop plan and layout. A
letter shall be provided to the Planning and Zoning Department from the local
school bus company, prior to preliminary plat approval, indicating said bus
company’s approval of said detailed school bus stop plan and layout.
(Ord. 2768, passed 4-20-2009; Ord. 2811, passed 11-2-2009)
§ 11-04-03 ENGINEERING PLANS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall retain a professional engineer, currently
licensed in the state, to prepare and submit a complete set of engineering
plans, satisfactory to the City Engineer, for construction of required
improvements.
   (B)   Engineering plans shall be based on conditions of approval as outlined
in the order of decision related to the preliminary plat, and any development
agreement pertinent to the subject property, as well as city code and this
title.
   (C)   Engineering plans shall further be based on the approved preliminary
plat as modified by the preliminary plat order of decision and/or development
agreement, notwithstanding any items on the approved preliminary plat not
consistent with city code that were not specifically addressed and approved as
an exception in the order of decision and/or development agreement.
   (D)   Engineering plans shall be approved for construction by the
Engineering Department prior to commencement of any construction. Approval
shall be based upon the preliminary plat order of decision and/or development
agreement, city code, this title, the approved preliminary plat as modified by
the preliminary plat order of decision and/or development agreement and any
exceptions addressed in the preliminary plat order of decision and/or
development agreement.
   (E)   For phased developments, engineering plans should reflect the
applicable phase being developed. In the event the phase lines change, a new
set of engineering plans shall be required for each affected phase even if a
previous set has already been approved.
   (F)   The initial submittal and subsequent revision process for engineering
plans, as established by the Engineering Department, shall be followed and
shall include payment of all applicable fees.
   (G)   The approval of engineering plans by the Engineering Department is
good for one year from the date of stamped and signed approval or until the
preliminary plat expires, whichever comes first. Once engineering plans have
expired, a new set of plans will have to be submitted to the Engineering
Department for review and approval provided the preliminary plat is still
active. Review of new plans will be based upon divisions (A) through (F) above.
(Ord. 2768, passed 4-20-2009; Ord. 2811, passed 11-2-2009)
§ 11-04-04 CONSTRUCTION AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   Prior to commencement of construction of any required improvements,
construction in any dedicated right-of-way or future right-of-way area or
construction of any improvement intended for dedication to the city or
connection to a city facility, a preconstruction meeting shall be scheduled by
the engineer of record.
      (1)   Said preconstruction meeting shall take place at the Engineering
Department.
      (2)   Representatives from all applicable utilities shall be invited and
should be present.
      (3)   Applicable city personnel shall be present.
   (B)   The City Engineering Department shall be notified a minimum of two
business days in advance of all testing, including, but not limited to,
compaction, pressure and coliform testing.
      (1)   Applicable city personnel must be present at all testing or the
results will be null and void, unless applicable city personnel authorize
testing to proceed without city observation. The city shall be duly notified by
the engineer of record or his or her authorized representative a minimum of two
business days prior to the testing.
      (2)   The engineer of record or his or her designated representative must
be present at all testing or the results will be null and void.
      (3)   A log of all inspection visits and testing results shall be kept by
the engineer of record or his or her representative and a copy of said log and
testing results shall be submitted to the Engineering Department upon
completion of the improvements.
   (C)   Construction of facilities to be dedicated and/or within a public
right-of-way or future public right-of-way area shall be performed by an
appropriately licensed public works contractor and constructed to city
specifications and standards.
   (D)   The subdivider shall employ a responsible design professional,
preferably the engineer of record, to oversee and inspect construction, to
perform and/or observe all requisite testing of completed facilities and to
acknowledge in writing, that to the best of his or her knowledge, improvements
have been constructed in compliance with approved plans and city specifications
and standards.
   (E)   All public streets, public sewer lines, public water lines and water
services, up to and through the water meter, and including the water meter,
fire hydrants and streetlight facilities, shall be dedicated to the city.
   (F)   Conveyance facilities for stormwater drainage within public rights-of-
way may be eligible for dedication to the city on a case-by-case basis as
approved by the City Engineer.
   (G)   All construction staking shall be performed by or under the direct
supervision of a professional land surveyor or professional engineer and shall
be so noted on the construction plans.
   (H)   The engineer of record shall be held responsible to ensure that
required development improvements are in substantial compliance with said
engineer’s design.
(Ord. 2768, passed 4-20-2009; Ord. 2811, passed 11-2-2009)
§ 11-04-05 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS; STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Requirements mandatory. All requirements hereinbelow, as noted in this
section, must be adhered to and no exceptions are allowed even through the
planned unit development process, unless an exception to said standards has
been granted by City Council. Any such exceptions shall be made on a case-by-
case basis only, shall not be considered precedent setting and shall be
dependent upon one or any combination of the following factors: topography;
geography; limited size of the subject property; existing site or surrounding
conditions that prohibit adherence to the requirement; whether or not the
project is an infill project; and/or whether or not the project is a
redevelopment project. In no case shall an exception be granted if, in the
opinion of City Council, said exception presents a detriment to the public’s
health, safety and/or general welfare and/or is not in the best interests of
the city. In no case shall an exception be granted if any portion of the
request for the exception is based upon financial conditions or situations. All
requested exceptions must be specifically requested and detailed in the initial
preliminary plat application and shall be considered for a recommendation by
the Commission and a final decision by the City Council.
   (B)   Adherence to various standards and specifications; streets. The
following are required improvements that shall adhere to city code, CSS, MUTCD
and the city’s transportation master plan. In certain instances, as approved by
City Council, where all buildings exist and no new construction will
immediately be taking place, curb, gutter, sidewalk, street, alley, street
lighting, approach and/or approach spacing improvements may be deferred until
such time that new construction of a primary building or unit does take place
within the subdivision/development. At the time of new construction of any
primary building or unit, all deferred improvements shall be installed as per
the standards in place at the date of submittal of the building permit
application. The Engineering Department shall not sign a certificate of
occupancy in such cases until all deferred improvements have been completed by
the applicant and inspected and accepted by the city along with applicable
record drawings, inspection logs, engineer’s certifications and dedication
requests:
      (1)   Streets and alleys;
      (2)   Curb and gutter;
      (3)   Sidewalk;
      (4)   Street name signs and other street traffic signs;
      (5)   Street lighting; and
      (6)   Construction of approach and approach spacing.
   (C)   Stormwater. Strict adherence to the “Caldwell Stormwater Management
Manual,” as adopted by City Council as well as any subsequent adopted updates,
is required.
   (D)   Sanitary sewage disposal.
      (1)   Connection to city sewer system is required.
      (2)   An individual sewage disposal service shall be installed for each
individual buildable lot.
      (3)   All sanitary sewage disposal facilities shall be designed and
subject to city code, standards, specifications and approvals and shall comply
with all applicable sewer master studies, including updates.
   (E)   Water supply.
      (1)   Connection to city water system is required. Each individual
buildable lot shall have installed an individual water service capable of
supplying each buildable lot with safe, pure and potable water in sufficient
volume flow and pressure for domestic use and fire protection in accordance
with city code, Department of Environmental Quality requirements, International
Fire Code and specifically §
08-13-01.
      (2)   All condominium units shall have individual water meters, including
existing units as well as new construction.
      (3)   Redundant water supply is required.
      (4)   All domestic services and facilities shall be designed and subject
to city code, standards, specifications and approvals and shall comply with all
applicable master water studies, including updates. Exceptions to master water
studies and master water plans may be granted by City Council.
   (F)   Irrigation. Irrigation facilities shall be provided as detailed in §
10-07-12 of the zoning regulations. The developer, subdivider and/or property
owner shall maintain any existing upstream drainage rights and downstream
irrigation rights across the subject property. The developer, subdivider,
property owner and/or engineer of record shall contact the appropriate
irrigation district to help ascertain these rights. Appropriate facilities
shall be provided by the developer, subdivider and/or property owner to convey
irrigation and drainage water across the subject property to take care of these
off-site needs. There shall be no discharge of gravity irrigation return water
into the subdivision stormwater system.
      (1)   Supplying irrigation district shall approve the location of the
point of delivery.
      (2)   Existing irrigation facilities shall be located outside the public
right-of-way and shall be moved, adjusted and/or improved as necessary to
facilitate required street improvements.
   (G)   Monuments. Monuments shall be set in accordance with Idaho Code § 50-
1303. Monuments disturbed or destroyed during construction shall be reset.
   (H)   Fire hydrants. Fire hydrants are required to meet the City Water
Department’s standards, city code standards and International Fire Code’s water
supply requirements.
      (1)   Fire hydrants shall be installed at all locations as specified in
any project plan or plat review as identified by the Fire Department.
      (2)   Fire hydrants do not need to be shown on preliminary plat maps. The
Fire Department will determine the location of all required fire hydrants
during its plan review of all preliminary plats.
      (3)   Fire hydrant locations, as determined by the Fire Department, shall
be shown on all final approved construction drawings and record drawings.
      (4)   Fire hydrants shall meet city installation standards as to the type
of hydrant and water line connections.
      (5)   Fire hydrants must be installed and operable prior to any
combustible materials being brought on the property.
      (6)   Fire hydrants shall be painted bright red, and the steamer
connection shall meet Fire Department requirements. Where subject to collision,
bollards may be required as determined and approved by the Fire Department.
   (I)   Utilities.
      (1)   The extension and relocation of power, telephone, communication,
television and similar utilities shall be at the subdivider’s expense and shall
have the capacity and placement necessary to serve land located farther out.
      (2)   Power, telephone, communication, television and similar utility
lines on the property boundary and within the subdivision shall all be
installed underground.
      (3)   When overhead distribution utility lines exist on and within the
property being platted, those lines and the new installation within the platted
area shall be underground.
      (4)   All existing and proposed easements on the subject property shall
be clearly detailed on preliminary plats, final plats, construction drawings
and record drawings with dimensions, bearings and instrument numbers.
(Ord. 2768, passed 4-20-2009; Ord. 2811, passed 11-2-2009)
§ 11-04-06 RECORD DRAWINGS.
   (A)   All record drawings shall show the following items in their respective
“as built” locations as well as showing elevations for water, sewer, storm
drainage, curb and gutter:
      (1)   Water.
         (a)   Meter placement;
         (b)   Valve placement;
         (c)   Blow off placement;
         (d)   Fire hydrant placement;
         (e)   Main lines; and
         (f)   Service lines (includes fire service lines specifically called
out).
      (2)   Sewer.
         (a)   Manhole placement;
         (b)   Cleanout placement;
         (c)   Lift station placement;
         (d)   Main lines; and
         (e)   Service lines.
      (3)   Street lighting.
         (a)   Streetlight electrical system, to include conduits, J-boxes,
power source location and pole locations; and
         (b)   Meter pedestals (if applicable).
      (4)   Pressure irrigation.
         (a)   Service placement;
         (b)   Valve placement;
         (c)   Pump out placement;
         (d)   Drain placement;
         (e)   Air vacuum placement (including air vacuum valve);
         (f)   Backflow connections;
         (g)   Pump station placement; and
         (h)   Main lines.
      (5)   Storm drain.
         (a)   Catch basin placement;
         (b)   Siphon placement;
         (c)   Manhole placement;
         (d)   Sand and grease trap placement;
         (e)   Inlet and outlet placement (ponds, seepage beds, drain ditches
and the like);
         (f)   Main lines; and
         (g)   Map SD overflow to an existing drain.
      (6)   Street signs. Placement of all street/traffic signs installed
(street name, stop, dead end and the like).
      (7)   Drawings.
         (a)   All sheets approved with the construction drawing shall be
submitted with the record drawings.
         (b)   All pages shall be “as built.”
         (c)   All pages shall be stamped and signed by the engineer of record.
         (d)   Electronic copies of the approved record drawings shall be
submitted using “.dwg” drawing file format and shall be spatially referenced to
the state plan coordinate system - west zone, North American datum (NAD) 83.
Vertical control shall be referenced to the North American vertical datum
(NAVD) 88. The unit of measurement shall be U.S. survey feet.
   (B)   Record drawings shall be submitted and approved, along with engineer
of record inspection logs and the engineer’s certification from the engineer of
record, prior to the city’s signature on the final plat unless said items are
included in the financial guarantee. Record drawings shall establish that the
engineer of record has caused construction to occur in substantial compliance
with the design of said engineer of record.
(Ord. 2768, passed 4-20-2009; Ord. 2811, passed 11-2-2009)
§ 11-04-07 FINANCIAL GUARANTEES.
   (A)   (1)   Financial guarantees shall be in the form of:
         (a)   Cash deposited with and held by the city pending final
completion of the improvements; or
         (b)   Cash backed irrevocable letter of credit, drawn from a financial
institution located within 50 miles of the city, that has been submitted to and
accepted by the City Engineer and is irrevocable until final completion of all
improvements.
      (2)   Alternate forms of financial guarantee may be accepted by the city
upon a finding by both the City Attorney and the City Engineer that such
alternate form of financial guarantee is in the best interest of the city.
   (B)   Financial guarantees shall be submitted to and accepted by the City
Engineer prior to any city signatures on the final plat.
   (C)   (1)   The developer shall provide, and be the responsible party for, a
financial guarantee as outlined within this section in an equal amount to 150%
of the itemized bids from the developer’s contractors, issued on said
contractor’s letterhead and submitted to the City Engineer for approval.
      (2)   Remaining work shall be determined by the Engineering Department,
in conjunction with the Planning and Zoning Department, in the form of a punch
list which shall be compiled by the Engineering Department following a walk-
through inspection by the Engineering Department. The punch list shall be
reviewed and accepted by both the Engineering Department and the Planning and
Zoning Department prior to issuance.
   (D)   If construction of any improvements has been deferred or postponed by
submittal of a financial guarantee, no more than 80% of the total building
permits ultimately available for the subdivision or phase for which the
financial guarantee was submitted shall be applied for by the applicant or
issued by the city.
   (E)   (1)   Regardless of the aforementioned 80% available building permits,
if construction of all improvements is not completed within 120 days following
the date of recordation of the final plat, no building permits shall be applied
for by the subdivider or issued by the city until final completion of all
improvements by the subdivider has taken place and the city has inspected and
approved all improvements.
      (2)   Provided, however, that if the failure to complete all improvements
within the 120-day period occurs through no fault of the subdivider (no fault
of the subdivider does not include economic or market conditions), the City
Engineer, at his or her sole discretion, may grant time extensions to the 120-
day period of a minimum 120 days each.
   (F)   Under no circumstances shall the city ever issue more than 80% of the
total building permits ultimately available for the subdivision or phase until
final completion of all improvements for said subdivision or phase by the
subdivider has taken place and said improvements have been inspected and
approved by the City Engineer.
   (G)   The financial guarantee is good for one year only. If construction of
improvements has not been completed within one year of submittal of the
financial guarantee, the City Engineer, at his or her sole discretion, may
grant a one-time only extension to the one-year period, said one-time only
extension not to exceed one additional year.
      (1)   The renewal amount shall be set at 175% of the City Engineer’s
estimate of cost on the remaining work.
      (2)   Estimated cost on remaining work shall be determined in part by
detailed bids from the subdivider’s contractors as issued on said contractors’
letterhead and submitted to the City Engineer.
   (H)   If construction of the improvements has not been completed within the
original one-year time period or the additional one-year time period granted by
the City Engineer through an extension, the City Engineer shall inform the
Council, through the public hearing process, at a regularly scheduled meeting.
      (1)   The Council may determine that the remaining work not completed by
the subdivider will be completed by the city and the construction costs
recovered from the financial guarantee.
      (2)   The Council may approve a second one-year time extension for
completion of the work by the subdivider.
         (a)   The renewal amount shall be set at 200% of the City Engineer’s
estimate of cost on the remaining work.
         (b)   Estimated cost on remaining work shall partially be determined
by detailed bids from the subdivider’s contractors as issued on said
contractors’ letterhead and submitted to the City Engineer.
      (3)   Further time extensions of financial guarantees beyond the second
one-year time extension are prohibited.
   (I)   Financial guarantees shall not be released by the city unless and
until all of the improvements (including required dedications) have been
completed by the subdivider and accepted by the City Engineer and by any other
applicable agencies or city departments responsible for acceptance and
maintenance.
   (J)   Financial guarantees shall be written to allow the city to draw upon
the financial guarantee at any time at the discretion of the City Engineer as
well as allowing multiple draws by the city.
(Ord. 2811, passed 11-2-2009; Ord. 3456, passed 9-1-2022; Ord. 3713, passed 10-
20-2025)
CHAPTER 5: SPECIAL SUBDIVISIONS OR PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
Section
   
11-05-01   Purpose
   
11-05-02   Hillside subdivisions or hillside planned unit developments
   
11-05-03   Floodplain subdivisions or floodplain planned unit developments
   
11-05-04   Cemetery subdivisions
§ 11-05-01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Identify various types of special subdivisions or special planned unit
developments that normally pose special concern to the city when reviewing and
acting upon subdivision or planned unit development requests;
   (B)   Outline requirements and design standards that shall be taken into
consideration when acting on special subdivisions or planned unit developments;
and
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter are in addition to all other
requirements of this title.
(Ord. 2768, passed 4-20-2009)
§ 11-05-02 HILLSIDE SUBDIVISIONS OR HILLSIDE PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Appearance and preservation. In order to preserve, enhance and promote
the existing and future appearance and resources of hillsides, maximum
retention of natural topographic features and qualities of the following shall
be considered in subdivision review processes:
      (1)   Skyline and ridge tops;
      (2)   Rolling grassy landforms, including knolls, ridges and meadows;
      (3)   Tree and shrub masses, grass, wildflowers and topsoil;
      (4)   Rock outcroppings;
      (5)   Streambeds, draws and drainage swales, especially where tree and
plant formations occur; and
      (6)   Characteristic vistas and scenic panoramas.
   (B)   Hillside subdivision or hillside planned unit development evaluation.
      (1)   All hillside subdivision and planned unit development proposals
shall take into account current application of desirable land use planning,
soil mechanics, engineering geology, hydrology, civil engineering,
environmental and civic design, architecture and landscape architecture. Such
current application includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Planning of subdivision to fit the topography, soils, geology,
hydrology and other conditions existing on the proposed site;
         (b)   Orienting development to the site so that grading and other site
preparation is kept to a minimum;
         (c)   Shaping of essential grading to complement the natural landforms
and to minimize padding and terracing of building sites;
         (d)   Division of large tracts into smaller workable lots on which
construction can be completed within one construction season so that large
acreages are not left bare and exposed during the winter/spring runoff period;
         (e)   Completion of paving as rapidly as possible after grading;
         (f)   Minimizing disruption of existing plant and animal life;
         (g)   Consideration of the view from and of the hills; and
         (h)   Fire risk analysis by the Fire Department.
      (2)   Areas having soils, geology, hydrology or unique fire hazards shall
not be developed unless it is shown that their limitations can be overcome;
that hazards to life or property will not exist unless they can be mitigated;
that the safety, use or stability of a public way or drainage channel is not
jeopardized; and that the natural environment is not subjected to undue impact.
   (C)   Required data. The subdivider shall retain professional and licensed
individuals, said licenses to be in applicable and pertinent fields of
expertise related to the requirement, to obtain the following information. All
of the following reports shall identify the specified area of building
location.
      (1)   Soil reports. For any proposed hillside development, a soil report
shall be submitted with the preliminary plat. The report shall include data
regarding the nature, distribution and strength of existing soil, conclusions
and recommendations for grading procedures, design criteria for corrective
measures and opinions and recommendations covering the adequacy of sites to be
developed.
      (2)   Geology report. For any proposed hillside development, a geology
report shall be submitted with the preliminary plat. This report shall include
an adequate description of site geology and an evaluation of the relationship
between the proposed development and the underlying geology and recommendations
for remedial action.
      (3)   Hydrology report. For any proposed hillside development, a
hydrology report shall be submitted with the preliminary plat. This report
shall include an adequate description of the hydrology, conclusions and
recommendations regarding the effect of hydrologic conditions on the proposed
development, and opinions and recommendations covering the adequacy of sites to
be developed.
   (D)   Required grading plan.
      (1)   A preliminary grading plan shall be submitted with any hillside
preliminary plat proposal and shall include the following information:
         (a)   Approximate limiting dimensions, elevations or finish contours
to be achieved by the grading, including all cut and fill slopes, proposed
drainage channels and related construction;
         (b)   Preliminary plans and approximate locations of all surface and
subsurface drainage devices, walls, dams, sediment basins, storage reservoirs
and other protective devices to be constructed; and
         (c)   A description of methods to be employed in disposing of soil and
other material that is removed from the grading site, including the location of
the disposal site.
      (2)   A final grading plan shall be submitted with every hillside final
plat, and shall be submitted and approved prior to final plat submittal, and
shall include the following information:
         (a)   Limiting dimensions, elevations or finish contours to be
achieved by the grading, including all proposed cut and fill slopes and
proposed drainage channels and related construction;
         (b)   Detailed plans and locations of all surface and subsurface
drainage devices, walls, dams, sediment basins, storage reservoirs and other
protective devices to be constructed; and
         (c)   A schedule showing when each stage of the project will be
completed, including the total area of soil surface which is to be disturbed
during each stage together with estimated starting and completion dates. In no
event shall the existing (“natural”) vegetative ground cover be destroyed,
removed or disturbed more than 15 days prior to grading, except when required
by the Fire Department or code enforcement for hazard risk or nuisance
reduction.
   (E)   Development standards.
      (1)   Soils.
         (a)   Fill areas shall be prepared by removing organic material, such
as vegetation and rubbish, and any other material which is determined by the
soils engineer to be detrimental to proper compaction or otherwise not
conducive to stability.
         (b)   Cuts and fills shall be designed to provide safety, stability
and adequate setback from property lines in accordance with city standards.
      (2)   Streets.
         (a)   Street alignments should follow natural terrain and no
unnecessary cuts or fills shall be allowed.
         (b)   One-way streets shall be permitted and encouraged where
appropriate for the terrain and when public safety would not be jeopardized.
         (c)   The width of the graded section shall extend three feet beyond
the curb back or edge of pavement on both the cut and fill sides of the street.
The graded section shall be increased by the width of the sidewalk plus one
foot beyond the curb back.
   (F)   Vegetation and revegetation.
      (1)   The subdivider shall submit a slope stabilization and revegetation
plan which shall include a complete description of the existing vegetation, the
vegetation to be removed and the method of disposal, the vegetation to be
planted and slope stabilization measures to be installed. The plan shall
include an analysis of the environmental effects of such operations, including
the effects it may have on slope stability, soil erosion, water quality, fire
safety and fish and wildlife.
      (2)   Vegetation sufficient to stabilize the soil shall be established on
all disturbed areas as each stage of grading is completed. Areas not contained
with lot boundaries shall be protected with perennial vegetative cover after
all construction is completed. Efforts shall be made to plant those species
that tend to recover from fire damage and which do not contribute to the
intensity and rate of fire spread. The guidelines of the International Wildland
Urban Interface Code shall be applied as needed.
      (3)   The subdivider shall be fully responsible for any destruction of
native vegetation proposed and approved for retention. The subdivider shall
carry the responsibility both for his or her own employees and for all
subcontractors from the first day of construction until the notice of
completion is filed. The subdivider shall be responsible for replacing such
destroyed vegetation in kind or its equivalent.
   (G)   Maintenance. The owner of any private property on which grading or
other work has been performed pursuant to a grading plan approved or a building
permit granted under the provisions of this title shall continuously maintain
and repair all graded surfaces and erosion prevention devices, retaining walls,
drainage structures or means and other protective devices, plantings and ground
cover installed or completed. Vegetation on undeveloped lots shall be
maintained so as to not create a fire hazard in any way.
(Ord. 2768, passed 4-20-2009)
§ 11-05-03 FLOODPLAIN SUBDIVISIONS OR FLOODPLAIN PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Flood areas.
      (1)   No building construction shall occur in a floodway. This does not
preclude the construction of necessary public infrastructure such as bridges or
utilities. When construction is approved near the floodway, all buildings shall
be set back a minimum of 50 feet from the floodway line to provide an access
strip for emergency construction equipment.
      (2)   For any proposed subdivision that is located within a floodplain,
the subdivider shall adhere to the following information with the preliminary
plat:
         (a)   Location of all planned improvements;
         (b)   The location of floodways and floodplain in accordance with
adopted FEMA maps;
         (c)   The location of the present water channel;
         (d)   Any planned rerouting of waterways;
         (e)   All major drainageways;
         (f)   Areas of frequent flooding;
         (g)   Means of floodproofing buildings;
         (h)   Provide elevation benchmarks used for establishing the data
shown on the preliminary plat; and
         (i)   Any requirements set forth in §
12-15-09(A).
   (B)   Demonstrating appropriateness of subdivision.
      (1)   In determining the appropriateness of a subdivision of land located
within a floodplain, the following shall be considered:
         (a)   The danger to life and property due to the increased flood
heights or velocities caused by subdivision fill, streets and intended uses;
         (b)   The danger that intended uses may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others;
         (c)   The adequacy of proposed water supply and sanitation systems and
the ability of these systems to prevent disease, contamination and unsanitary
conditions under flood conditions;
         (d)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damages and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         (e)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         (f)   The requirements of the subdivision for a waterfront location;
         (g)   The safety of access to the property for emergency vehicles in
times of flood;
         (h)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters expected at the site; and
         (i)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer and water systems, streets and bridges.
      (2)   No subdivision or part thereof shall be approved if levees, fills,
structures or other features within the proposed subdivision will individually
or collectively significantly increase the risk of damages to upstream
properties. If only part of a proposed subdivision can be safely developed,
development shall be limited to that part and no other.
(Ord. 2768, passed 4-20-2009; Ord. 2875, passed 5-16-2011)
§ 11-05-04 CEMETERY SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Function. The developer shall submit with the preliminary plat
application written documentation that will sufficiently explain if the
proposed cemetery will be used for either human or animal remains and the
functions that are anticipated on the property.
   (B)   Compliance with state code. The developer shall submit with the
preliminary plat application a written statement that has been prepared by an
attorney that adequately assures the compliance of the proposed cemetery with
the procedural platting requirements and management requirements that are
outlined in Idaho Code Title 27.
(Ord. 2768, passed 4-20-2009)
CHAPTER 6: VACATIONS OF SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
11-06-01   Application procedure
   
11-06-02   Action on request
§ 11-06-01 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person, persons, firm, association, corporation or other legally
recognized form of business desiring to vacate a plat or any part thereof
(including platted easements) which is inside boundaries of the city must
petition the Council to vacate.
   (B)   An application shall be obtained from the Planning and Zoning
Department and filed with the City Clerk, who will then forward it to the
Planning and Zoning Department for processing. The application must contain the
following:
      (1)   Particular circumstances of the request to vacate;
      (2)   Metes and bounds legal description, as prepared and stamped by a
professional land surveyor, of the platted area or property to be vacated;
      (3)   List of property owner names and addresses of all properties within
300 feet of the boundaries of the area described in the application;
      (4)   Any other items deemed essential by the Planning and Zoning
Department; and
      (5)   Applicable fees associated with the request as adopted by Council
through resolution.
   (C)   Written notice of the Council public hearing on said request shall be
given, by certified mail with return receipt, at least ten days prior to the
date of the public hearing to all property owners within 300 feet of the
boundaries of the area described in the application.
   (D)   Such notice of public hearing shall also be published once a week for
two successive weeks in the official newspaper of the city, the last of which
shall not be less than seven days prior to the date of said hearing; provided,
however, that in a proceeding as to the vacation of all or a portion of a
cemetery plat where there has been no interment, or in the case of a cemetery
being within 300 feet of another plat for which a vacation is sought,
publication of the notice of hearing shall be the only required notice as to
the property owners in the cemetery.
(Ord. 2768, passed 4-20-2009)
§ 11-06-02 ACTION ON REQUEST.
   (A)   Council action. When the procedures set forth herein have been
fulfilled, Council may approve the request to vacate, approve the request to
vacate with any restrictions they deem necessary in the public interest or deny
the request.
   (B)   Subsequent actions.
      (1)   In the case of easements granted for gas, sewer, water, telephone,
cable television, power, drainage and slope purposes, public notice of intent
to vacate is not required. Vacation of these easements shall occur upon the
recording of a new plat, provided that all affected easement holders have been
notified by certified mail, return receipt requested, of the proposed vacation
and have agreed to the same in writing.
      (2)   Land exclusive of public rights-of-way that has been subdivided and
platted in accordance with this title need not be vacated in order to be
replatted.
      (3)   A vacated or partially vacated plat does not vacate previously
platted and dedicated public rights-of-way. Vacating previously platted and
dedicated public rights-of-way requires a separate right-of-way vacation
process.
(Ord. 2768, passed 4-20-2009)
CHAPTER 7: ENFORCEMENT, AMENDMENTS AND CONFLICTING PROVISIONS
Section
   
11-07-01   Violations and penalties
   
11-07-02   Amendments
   
11-07-03   Conflicting provisions
§ 11-07-01 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Compliance required. No person shall subdivide any tract or parcel of
land located wholly or in part under the city’s jurisdiction except in
compliance with the provisions of this title. No person shall knowingly build,
purchase, sell or exchange any parcel of land which is any part of a
subdivision, or a proposed subdivision that has been submitted to the Planning
and Zoning Department, unless such subdivision has been created pursuant to and
in accordance with the provisions of this title and state code.
   (B)   Offense punishable.
      (1)   Violation of any of the provisions of this title or failure to
comply with any of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Each day
such violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. The landowner,
tenant, subdivider, builder, public official or any other person who commits,
participates in, assists in or maintains such violation may each be found
guilty of a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the
Council or any public official or private citizen from taking such lawful
action as is necessary to restrain or prevent any violation of this title or
state code.
      (2)   Upon conviction of any violation of any of the provisions of this
title, such person shall be punished by a fine of not more than $300 for each
day’s separate offense or by imprisonment of not more than 30 days, or both
fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 2768, passed 4-20-2009)
§ 11-07-02 AMENDMENTS.
   The Council may, from time to time, amend, supplement or repeal the
regulations and provisions of this title provided that the public hearing
process as outlined in §
10-03-03 of the zoning regulations is followed.
(Ord. 2768, passed 4-20-2009)
§ 11-07-03 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   It is not intended by this title to impair or interfere with other
regulations of state or local law, or with private restrictions on the use of
land, improvements and structures. Where this title imposes greater restriction
than that imposed by other law or private restrictions, this title shall
prevail.
(Ord. 2768, passed 4-20-2009)
TITLE 12: BUILDING POLICIES
   Chapter
      
1.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
3.   MOVING BUILDINGS
      
5.   PLUMBING REGULATIONS
      
7.   ELECTRICAL REGULATIONS
      
9.   INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
      
11.   SIGN REGULATIONS
      
13.   MECHANICAL CODE AND FUEL GAS CODE
      
15.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
17.   PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY IMPROVEMENTS
      
19.   APPEALS
CHAPTER 1: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
12-01-01   Code adoption
   
12-01-03   Adoption of Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings
   
12-01-04   Adoption of Model Energy Code
   
12-01-05   Fees
   
12-01-07   Construction of fences
   
12-01-09   Posting of address numbers on all occupied buildings
   
12-01-11   Awnings
   
12-01-13   Entry powers of Building Official
   
12-01-15   Permit requirements; permit revocation
   
12-01-17   Certificate of occupancy or completion; change in use of building
   
12-01-19   Buildings on Indian Creek; requirements
   
12-01-21   Amendments to the International Building Code, International
Residential Code and International Energy Conservation Code
   
12-01-23   Pole buildings or log structures
   
12-01-25   Manufactured homes
   
12-01-27   Board up procedures
§ 12-01-01 CODE ADOPTION.
   (A)   All the rules, regulations and ordinances of a general and permanent
character relating and applying to and regulating the erection, construction,
enlargement, alteration, repair, moving, removal, conversion, demolition,
occupancy, equipment, use, height, area of buildings or structures as said
rules, regulations and ordinances are printed and contained in code book form
designated and entitled: “2018 International Building Code” with amendments
(IBC) as published by the International Code Council, as adopted by the state
or the State Building Code Board, together with any amendments or revisions
made by the State Building Code Board through the negotiated rulemaking
process; the “2018 International Residential Code” parts I through VI and IX,
including Appendix G, with amendments (IRC) as published by the International
Code Council, as adopted by the state or the State Building Code Board,
together with any amendments or revisions made by the State Building Code Board
through the negotiated rulemaking process; the “2018 International Existing
Building Code” (IEBC) with amendments as published by the International Code
Council, as adopted by the state or the State Building Code Board, together
with any amendments or revisions thereto made by the State Building Code Board
through the negotiated rulemaking process; and the “2018 International Energy
Conservation Code” with amendments (IECC) as published by the International
Code Council, as adopted by the state or the State Building Code Board,
together with any amendments or revisions made by the State Building Code Board
through the negotiated rulemaking process; be and the same hereby ratified and
adopted as the Building Code and Energy Code of the City of Caldwell and as
ratified and adopted shall be the rules and regulations and ordinances
governing the erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, moving,
removal, conversion, demolition, occupancy, equipment, height and area of
buildings or structures within the city.
   (B)   To the extent that there may exist any inconsistency between the
requirements or standards set forth in this code and the requirements or
standards set forth in any of the above-referenced codes, including such
amendments or revisions as may be adopted by the state or the State Building
Code Board through the negotiated rulemaking process, the more restrictive
requirement or standard shall apply.
(Ord. 3127, passed 12-18-2017; Ord. 3305, passed 12-21-2020)
§ 12-01-03 ADOPTION OF UNIFORM CODE FOR THE ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS.
   There is hereby adopted for the purpose of providing a just, equitable and
practicable method, to be cumulative with and in addition to, any other remedy
provided by the Building Code, Housing Code or otherwise available at law,
where buildings or structures which from any cause endanger the life, limb,
health, morals, property, safety or welfare of the general public or their
occupants may be required to be repaired, vacated or demolished, that certain
code known as the Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings,
copyrighted by the International Conference of Building Officials, 1997
edition.
(Ord. 2673, passed 4-3-2007)
§ 12-01-04 ADOPTION OF MODEL ENERGY CODE.
   [Reserved]
(Repealed by Ord. 2451, passed 12-16-2002)
§ 12-01-05 FEES.
   (A)   Generally. From and after July 21, 1979, applicants for constructing,
repair or remodeling of any building or structure shall pay to the Building
Official fees established by the Building Official by rules and regulations
subject to approval by the City Council. The calculation of fees shall be based
on the valuation of proposed work. When the valuation determined by the
Building Official conflicts with the valuation proposed on the permit
application or by the applicant, the higher of the two valuations shall apply.
A plan review deposit in an amount established by the Building Official shall
accompany the permit application at time of submittal.
   (B)   Refunds. Before commencement of any construction regulated under the
issuance of a valid permit, the Building Official may authorize the refunding
of no more than 80% of building permit fees paid, when requested in writing by
letter or form, and all rights granted by the permit are terminated. Plan
review fees and deposits shall not be refundable.
(Ord. 2673, passed 4-3-2007; Ord. 2760, passed 8-18-2008)
§ 12-01-07 CONSTRUCTION OF FENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or place a fence upon any
property within the corporate limits of the city except in compliance with the
city’s zoning regulations. Fences constructed more than six feet in height
require a building permit issued by the Building Official.
(Ord. 2673, passed 4-3-2007)
§ 12-01-09 POSTING OF ADDRESS NUMBERS ON ALL OCCUPIED BUILDINGS.
   See §
05-07-10 for regulations regarding placement and posting of address numbers on
all buildings, over and above what is required in the International Building
Code.
(Ord. 2828, passed 6-21-2010)
§ 12-01-11 AWNINGS.
   (A)   Compliance. It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any awnings on
or over any street and/or sidewalk within the limits of the city except as
herein provided and except as provided for in the city’s zoning regulations.
   (B)   Installation permit required; fees.
      (1)   Any person erecting awnings over any sidewalk, street or alley, and
against the first story, within the city limits shall first secure a permit
from the Building Official before such an awning is erected.
      (2)   The Building Official shall, upon application, issue such permits
for movable awnings when such proposed awnings come within the provisions of
this chapter and collect a fee established by the Building Official and adopted
by City Council. Fees shall be based on valuation of the awning.
   (C)   Specifications for movable awnings. All movable awnings shall be of
canvas or duck and shall be affixed to and suspended from the building. Awnings
against the first or grade story of buildings shall be of the roller type and
shall be supported upon iron arms so as to permit the awning to be rolled
compact against the building.
   (D)   Distance of sidewalk. Awnings may extend over the sidewalk portion of
the public street a distance equal to two-thirds of the width of the sidewalk;
provided, that every such awning frame shall be not less than seven feet two
inches above the sidewalk immediately below, and that any fringe attached to
such awning shall be not less than six feet, six inches from the sidewalk level
immediately below. Also except that awnings, if used anywhere in the City
Center Zoning District, may encroach into the public right-of-way to within 24
inches to 30 inches of the curb face if a street or completely to the far edge
of the alley if an alley and any portion of the awning must be a minimum of 14
feet, six inches above the sidewalk grade or alley grade, whichever is
applicable.
(Ord. 2827, passed 5-3-2010)
§ 12-01-13 ENTRY POWERS OF BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The Building Official shall have the power to enter into any building or
premises at any reasonable hour where the work of altering, repairing or
constructing is proceeding, for the purpose of making inspections.
(Ord. 1771, passed 2-2-1988)
§ 12-01-15 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS; PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   Permit required.
      (1)   The construction, alteration, repair, removal or occupancy of any
structure or land, or any part thereof as provided or as restricted in the
zoning regulations, shall not be commenced until after the issuance of a
written permit by the Building Official, unless said construction, alteration,
repair, removal or occupancy falls completely within one or more of the
following exceptions.
      (2)   No permit is required for a residential reroof, where the new layer
of roof covering is not being applied over an existing layer or multiple layers
of roof covering. However, this exception shall not relieve any such project
from any other requirements of the law, including, but not limited to,
obtaining a certificate of appropriateness for projects located within a local
historic district, as per the requirements of §
02-17-09.
   (B)   Permit to be displayed. The person receiving such permit shall display
the official permit card in front of the affected building so that the same may
be seen from the street, and it shall be incumbent upon any law enforcement
officer of the city to stop such building operations until such permit has been
secured and displayed.
   (C)   Plans to be filed. No permit for construction or alteration shall be
issued unless there is filed with the Building Official a plan for such
construction or alteration which shows all buildings as now erected together
with the intended improvement.
   (D)   Master plan filed. The Building Official may, at his or her option,
file a master plan when indistinguishable plans are in abundance.
   (E)   Permit revocation. The Building Official may revoke any permit issued
in error, any permit issued on the basis of incorrect information or upon
learning of work which has been performed in violation of this code or any
other law of the state. Upon revocation the permit holder shall cease all work
until such time that a new permit has been issued or written notification of
reactivation of the nullified permit has been received.
(Ord. 1771, passed 2-2-1988; Ord. 2673, passed 4-3-2007; Ord. 2979, passed 12-
1-2014; Ord. 3044, passed 3-7-2016)
§ 12-01-17 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY OR COMPLETION; CHANGE IN USE OF BUILDING.
   (A)   Certificate of occupancy and/or completion required.
      (1)   No building erected shall be occupied, used, changed in use or
changed in occupancy classification until a certificate of occupancy has been
issued by the Building Official signifying that the building and/or proposed
use of a building complies with all the building and health laws and
regulations and with the provisions of this code relating thereto as well as
provisions of the city’s zoning regulations, said provisions being regulated by
the Planning and Zoning Department.
      (2)   All building alterations, other than additions, shall require a
certificate of completion as issued by the Building Official signifying that
the alteration(s) complies with all of the building and health laws and
regulations and with the provisions of this code relating thereto.
      (3)   All building additions shall require a certificate of occupancy for
the newly expanded portion of the building. Said certificate of occupancy shall
be issued by the Building Official signifying that the addition complies with
all of the building and health laws and regulations and with the provisions of
this code relating thereto as well as provisions of the city’s zoning
regulations, said provisions being regulated by the Planning and Zoning
Department.
   (B)   Record of certificate. A record of all certificates shall be kept on
file in the office of the Building Official and copies shall be furnished on
request to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in the building
affected. No fee shall be charged for an original certificate, but for copies
of any original or subsequent certificates, there shall be a charge of $1 each.
   (C)   Change in use of building. The use of a building shall not be changed
from one use to another use or from one occupancy classification to another
occupancy classification unless and until a building permit application for a
change in use has been submitted to and processed by the Building Department,
followed by the subsequent issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
      (1)   Under proper circumstances, the Building Official may allow a
building to be occupied without conforming to all the requirements of this
code, per § 3408.1 of the International Building Code.
      (2)   The Building Official may, as he or she deems necessary and at his
or her sole discretion, require floor plans for any change of use or change of
occupancy classification to be drawn and stamped by an architect or engineer
currently licensed in the state.
(Ord. 2799, passed 7-20-2009; Ord. 2862, passed 1-18-2011)
§ 12-01-19 BUILDINGS ON INDIAN CREEK; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All buildings erected along or adjacent to Indian Creek shall be of
suitable and endurable material, and the walls along the banks of said Indian
Creek supporting said buildings shall be of reinforced concrete or like
permanent material and shall be supported by proper footing and foundations to
comply with the Building Code of the city and be satisfactory to the City
Engineer and the Building Inspector. All such bases shall reach at least five
feet below the scour line of said Indian Creek.
   (B)   The throat of said creek, between the said walls of such building or
structures, shall be at least 33 clear lateral feet and shall be at least eight
feet above the bed of the stream.
(Ord. 1771, passed 2-2-1988)
§ 12-01-21 AMENDMENTS TO THE INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE, INTERNATIONAL
RESIDENTIAL CODE AND INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE.
   Exemptions: Agricultural Buildings, as defined in IBC § 202, as amended,
below, are exempt from the building codes adopted herein but shall remain
subject to placement requirements established by zoning regulations.
   IBC § 101.1, “Title” These regulations shall be known as the building code
of the City of Caldwell, hereinafter referred to as “this code.”
   IRC § 101.1, “Title” These provisions shall be known as the residential code
for one- and two-family dwellings of the City of Caldwell, and shall be cited
as such and will be referred to herein as “this code.”
   Delete exception no. 2 contained under IRC § R101.2, “Scope,” and replace
with the following: Exception: The following shall also be permitted to be
constructed in accordance with this code:
      1. Owner-occupied lodging houses with five or fewer guestrooms and ten or
fewer total occupants.
      2. A care facility with five or fewer persons receiving custodial care
within a dwelling unit or single-family dwelling.
      3. A care facility for five or fewer persons receiving personal care that
are within a dwelling unit or single-family dwelling.
      4. A care facility with 12 or fewer children receiving day care within a
dwelling unit or single-family dwelling.
   IBC § 101.4.3, “Plumbing” is deleted and repealed in its entirety.
   IBC § 101.4.4, “Property Maintenance” is deleted and repealed along with all
references to the International Property Maintenance Code throughout the IBC
and IRC.
   IBC/IRC § 103.2, “Appointment” is deleted and repealed in its entirety.
   IRC § R104.10.1, Flood hazard areas.
   IBC § 105.1.1, “Annual Permit” is deleted and repealed in its entirety.
   IBC § 105.1.2, “Annual Permit Records” is deleted and repealed in its
entirety.
   IBC/IRC § 105.2, the subsections therein entitled “Electrical” and
“Plumbing” are deleted and repealed in their entirety.
   Delete item no. 7 contained under the “building” subsection of IRC § R105.2,
“Work Exempt from Permit” and replace with the following:
      7.   Prefabricated swimming pools that are not greater than four feet
(1,219 mm) deep.
   Add the following as item number 11 under the “Building” subheading of §
R105.2 Work exempt from permit:
      11.   Flag poles.
   IBC/IRC § 105.3.2, “Time Limitation of Application” is amended to read:
Applications for permit shall be considered abandoned after 180 days from the
filing date. The Building Official may discard any abandoned application, plans
or documents without the granting of an extension when no efforts to contact
the Building Department have been exercised by the applicant.
   IBC/IRC § 106.5, “Retention of Construction Documents” is deleted and
repealed in its entirety.
   IBC § 107.1, Submittal Documents. Submittal documents consisting of
construction documents, statement of special inspections, geotechnical report
and other data shall be submitted in two or more sets with each permit
application. The construction documents shall be prepared by a registered
design professional as defined in this code (§ 12-01-21). Where special
conditions exist, the Building Official is authorized to require additional
construction documents to be prepared by a registered design professional.
   Exceptions: The following may be exempt from the requirements above
depending on the exact nature of the work, subject to the Building Official’s
authority to require additional construction documents to be prepared by a
registered design professional where special conditions exist:
      1. Tenant improvements, change in use/occupancy and alterations less than
1,500 square feet and not exceeding two stories in height, involving a B, M,
S1, S2, F1 and F2 occupancy classification, excluding F1 occupancies used for
the manufacturing of furniture and woodworking facilities, and occupancies
storing flammable and/or combustible materials.
      2. Minor interior non-structural remodels less than 2,500 square feet
involving a B, M, A, S1, S2, F1, F2, I and R occupancy group.
      3. Group R-3 and U occupancies not exceeding three stories in height.
      4. Wood pole structures not exceeding 1,000 square feet, 10' max. bent
spacing and/or a 10' eave height.
      5. Group R dwelling units not exceeding two units.
   Delete IRC § R109.1.3 and replace with the following:
      Floodplain Inspections. For construction in areas prone to flooding as
established by Table R301.2(1), upon placement of the lowest floor, including
basement, the Building Official is authorized to require submission of
documentation of the elevation of the lowest floor, including basement,
required in § R322.
   IBC § 109.4; IRC § R108.6, “Work Commencing Before Permit Issuance” is
amended to read as follows: Any person who commences any work on a building or
structure before obtaining the necessary permit, shall be subject to an
investigation fee in the amount established by the Building Official up to
quadruple of the permit fee. Investigation fees shall be in addition to the
required permit fee.
   IBC § 116, “Unsafe Structures and Equipment” is deleted and repealed in its
entirety.
   IBC § 202, definition for “Agricultural Building,” as used within the IBC
and as referred to in Idaho Code § 39-4116 (exempting “agricultural buildings”
from the requirements of the codes enumerated in Idaho Code Title 39, Chapter
41), shall be amended as follows:
      AGRICULTURAL BUILDING:
      (A) An “Agricultural Building” is a structure that is designed and
constructed solely for one or more of the following purposes:
         (1)   Livestock shelters or buildings, including shade structures and
milking barns;
         (2)   Poultry buildings or shelter;
         (3)   Barns;
         (4)   Storage of equipment and machinery used exclusively in
agriculture;
         (5)   Horticultural structures, including detached production
greenhouses and crop protection shelters;
         (6)   Grain silos; and
         (7)   Stables.
      (B)   However, notwithstanding the foregoing, no building shall be
considered an “agricultural building” if it is:
   
         (1)   Used as a place of human habitation; or
         (2)   Used as a place of employment where agricultural products are
processed, treated or packaged; or
         (3)   Open to use by the public; or
         (4)   A shop and/or machinery repair building; or
         (5)   A garage or building used for storage of personal use vehicles
and/or vehicles licensed for use on public roads.
      (C)   “Equipment and machinery used exclusively in agriculture” means
farm implements and other equipment and machinery that are used exclusively on
land actively devoted to agriculture and are not used on public highways except
as necessary for access to land actively devoted to agriculture.
      (D)   “Land actively devoted to agriculture” means real property meeting
the eligibility criteria for appraisal, assessment and taxation as agricultural
property as set forth in Idaho Code § 63-604.
   IBC § 202, definition for “Registered Design Professional,” is amended to
read as follows: An individual who is registered or licensed to practice their
respective design profession as defined by the statutory requirements of the
professional registration laws of the state. For purposes of this definition,
the term “design profession” shall be limited to the practices of architecture
and engineering.
   IRC § R202, definition for “Registered Design Professional,” is amended to
read as follows: An individual who is registered or licensed to practice their
respective design profession as defined by the statutory requirements of the
professional registration laws of the state. For purposes of this definition,
the term “design profession” shall be limited to the practices of architecture
and engineering.
   IRC § R202, definition for “Townhouse” is amended to read as follows:
Townhouse is a single family dwelling unit constructed in a row of attached
units separated by property lines and with open space on at least 2 sides.
   IRC Table R301.2(1) is amended as follows:
TABLE R301.2(1) CLIMATIC AND GEOGRAPHIC DESIGN CRITERIA
TABLE R301.2(1) CLIMATIC AND GEOGRAPHIC DESIGN CRITERIA
GROUND SNOW    20 PSF.
LOADo:         Design roof load shall not be less than a uniform snow load of
               25 psf.
               SPEEDd (mph):  115
               Wind speed from the basic wind speed map [Figure R301.2(4)A].
               Wind exposure category shall be determined in accordance with §
               R301.2.1.4 WIND DESIGN
               TOPOGRAPHIC    NO
WIND DESIGN:   EFFECTSk:
               In accordance with § R301.2.1.5
               SPECIAL WIND   NO
               REGIONl:
               WIND-BORNE     NO
               DEBRIS ZONEm:
SEISMIC DESIGN B
CATEGORYf:     In accordance with § R301.2.2.1
               WEATHERINGa:   Severe
               as determined from the Weathering Probability Map [Figure R301.2
               (3)]. The grade of masonry units shall be determined from ASTM
SUBJECT TO     C34, C55, C62, C73, C90, C129, C145, C216 or C652.
DAMAGE FROM:   FROST LINE     24 inches
               DEPTHb:
               TERMITEc:
               Slight to Moderate Based on history of local subterranean
               termite damage.
               10°F           
WINTER DESIGN  The outdoor design dry-bulb temperature shall be selected from
TEMPe:         the columns of 97.5% values for winter from Appendix D of the
               International Plumbing Code or as determined by the Building
               Official.
               NO
               In accordance with §§ R905.2.7.1, R905.4.3.1, R905.5.3.1,
               R905.6.3.1, R905.7.3.1 and 21 R905.8.3.1, where there has been a
               history of local damage from the effects of ice damming.
               FLOOD          Floodplain ordinance effective 4-18-2011, with
               HAZARDSg:      current revisions and FIRM maps as currently
                              adopted.
ICE BARRIER    AIR FREEZING   860
UNDERLAYMENT   INDEXi:
REQUIREDh:     Based on the 100-year return period air freezing index (BF-days)
               from Figure R403.3(2) or from the 100-year (99%) value on the
               National Climatic Data Center data table “Air Freezing Index-USA
               Method (Base 32°F)” at www.ncdc.noaa.gov/fpsf.html.
               MEAN ANNUAL    51.8°F
               TEMPj:
               Based on the mean annual temperature from the National Climatic
               Data Center data table “Air Freezing Index-USA Method (Base
               32°F)” at www.ncdc.noaa.gov/fpsf.html.
               Elevation:     2838
               Latitude:      43.57 deg. N.
               Winter         16 deg.
               heating:
               Summer         93 deg.
               cooling:
               Altitude
               correction     .98
               factor:
               Indoor design  75 deg.
               temperature:
               Design
               temperature    Dry-Bulb 94 deg./Wet-Bulb 63 deg.
               cooling:
MANUAL J       Heating
DESIGN         temperature    60 deg.
CRITERIAn:     difference:
               Cooling
               temperature    20 deg.
               difference:
               Wind velocity  15.0
               heating:
               Wind velocity  7.5
               cooling:
               Coincident wet 63 deg.
               bulb:
               Daily range:   High
               Winter         50%
               humidity:
               Summer         50%
               humidity:
 
   All footnotes published underneath Table R301.2(1) in the code are
applicable here and are incorporated herein by this reference.
   Delete § R301.2.1.2 Protection of Openings.
   Delete Table R302.1(1) and replace with the following:
TABLE R302.1(1) - EXTERIOR WALLS
Exterior Wall Element Minimum Fire-Resistance Rating Minimum Fire Separation
                                                     Distance
TABLE R302.1(1) - EXTERIOR WALLS
Exterior Wall Element                 Minimum Fire-        Minimum Fire
                                      Resistance Rating    Separation Distance
                                      1 hour-tested in
                  Fire-resistance     accordance with ASTM
                  rated               E 119 or UL263 with  < 3 feet
Walls                                 exposure from both
                                      sides
                  Not fire-resistance 0 hours              = 3 feet
                  rated
                  Fire-resistance     1 hour on the        = 2 feet to < 3 feet
Projections       rated               underside
                  Not fire-resistance 0 hours              = 3 feet
                  rated
                  Not allowed         n/a                  < 3 feet
Openings in walls 24% maximum of wall 0 hours              = 3 feet to < 5 feet
                  area
                  Unlimited           0 hours              5 feet
Penetrations      All                 Comply with § R302.4< 3 feet
                                      None required        = 3 feet
For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm.
N/A = Not Applicable
a. The fire-resistance rating shall be permitted to be reduced to zero (0)
hours on the underside of the eave overhang if fireblocking is provided from
the wall top plate to the underside of the roof sheathing.
b. The fire-resistance rating shall be permitted to be reduced to zero (0)
hours on the underside of the rake overhang where gable vent openings are not
installed.
 
   IRC § R302.5.1, “Opening Protection” is amended to read as follows: Openings
from a private garage directly into a room used for sleeping purposes shall not
be permitted. Other openings between the garage and residence shall be equipped
with solid wood doors not less than 13/8 inches (35 mm) in thickness, solid or
honeycomb core steel doors not less than 13/8 inches (35 mm) thick, or 20-
minute fire-rated doors. These doors shall be provided with two self-closing
hinges or one closing device capable of closing the door to a latching point.
   IRC § R302.6, “Dwelling/Garage Fire Separation” is amended to read as
follows: The private garage shall be separated from the residence and its attic
area by means of minimum 5/8 inch type X gypsum board applied to garage side.
   Delete § R302.13 Fire protection of floors.
   Delete IRC § R303.4 and replace with the following: R303.4 Mechanical
Ventilation. Dwelling units shall be provided with whole-house mechanical
ventilation in accordance with § M1505.4.
   IRC § M1507.3.1, System Design. Add the following to the end of the section:
Outdoor air shall be ducted predominantly horizontal to avoid chimney effect.
Outdoor air ducts will contain an accessible back draft damper and be designed
to have an open cross section of 20 square inches per 1,000 square feet of
conditioned space.
   Delete the exception contained under IRC § R313.1, “Townhouse Automatic Fire
Sprinkler Systems” and replace with the following:
   Exception: Automatic residential fire sprinkler systems shall not be
required in townhouses where either two one-hour fire-resistance-rated walls or
a common two-hour fire-resistance rated wall, as specified in item number 2 of
§ R302.2.2 is installed between dwelling units or when additions or alterations
are made to existing townhouses that do not have an automatic residential fire
sprinkler system installed.
   Delete IRC § R313.2. One- and two-family dwellings automatic fire sprinkler
systems.
   Delete the exceptions under § R314.2.2 Alterations, repairs and additions,
and replace with the following: Exceptions: 1. Work involving the exterior
surfaces of dwellings, such as, but not limited to, replacement of roofing or
siding, or the addition or replacement of windows or doors, or the addition of
a porch or deck or electrical permits, are exempt from the requirements of this
section. 2. Installation, alteration or repairs of plumbing or mechanical
systems are exempt from the requirements of this section.
   Add the following to IRC § R315.2:
   Where Required in Existing Dwellings:
   Exceptions:
      1. Work involving the exterior surfaces of dwellings, such as, but not
limited to, replacement of roofing or siding, or the addition or replacement of
windows or doors, or the addition of a porch or deck or electrical permits, are
exempt from the requirements of this section; and
      2. Installation, alteration or repairs of noncombustion plumbing or
mechanical systems are exempt from the requirements of this section.
   IRC § R315.2, “Carbon Monoxide Alarms Where Required in Existing Dwellings”
is amended to read: “Where work requiring a permit occurs in existing dwellings
that have attached garages or in existing dwellings within which fuel fired
appliances exist, carbon monoxide alarms shall be provided in accordance with §
R315.1.
   Exceptions:
      1. Work involving the exterior surfaces of dwellings, such as, but not
limited to, replacement of roofing or siding, or the addition or replacement of
windows or doors, or the addition of a porch or deck, or electrical permits,
are exempt from the requirements of this section.
      2. Installation, alteration or repairs of non-combustion plumbing or
mechanical systems are exempt from the requirements of this section.
   Delete the exceptions under § R315.2.2 Alterations, repairs and additions,
and replace with the following: Exceptions: 1. Work involving the exterior
surfaces of dwellings, such as, but not limited to, replacement of roofing or
siding, or the addition or replacement of windows or doors, or the addition of
a porch or deck or electrical permits, are exempt from the requirements of this
section. 2. Installation, alteration or repairs of noncombustion plumbing or
mechanical systems are exempt from the requirements of this section.
   Delete IRC § R322.1.10 As-built elevation documentation.
   Delete § R322.2.1 and replace with the following: R322.2.1 Elevation
requirements. 1. Buildings and structures in flood hazard areas, including
flood hazard areas designated as Coastal A Zones, shall have the lowest floors
elevated to or above the base flood elevation. 2. In areas of shallow flooding
(AO Zones), buildings and structures shall have the lowest floors (including
basement) elevated to a height above the highest adjacent grade of not less
than the depth number specified in feet (mm) on the FIRM, or not less than two
feet (610 mm) if a depth number is not specified. 3. Basement floors that are
below grade on all sides shall be elevated to or above base flood elevation.
Exception: Enclosed areas below the design flood elevation, including basements
with floors that are not below grade on all sides, shall meet the requirements
of § R322.2.2.
   Delete subparagraph 2.1 of § R322.2.2 Enclosed area below design flood
elevation, and replace with the following: 2.1. The total net area of all
openings shall be at least one square inch (645 mm2) for each square foot
(0.093 m2) of enclosed area, or the opening shall be designed and the
construction documents shall include a statement that the design and
installation of the openings will provide for equalization of hydrostatic flood
forces on exterior walls by allowing the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   Delete IRC § R322.2.2 paragraph 2.2, and replace with the following:
   The total net area of all openings shall be at least one square inch (645
mm2) for each square foot (0.093 m2) of enclosed area, or the opening shall be
designed and the construction documents shall include a statement that the
design and installation of the openings will provide for equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters.
   IRC § R402.1, “Wood Foundations” is amended to read: Wood foundation systems
shall be designed by a licensed architect or engineer, licensed in the state
and designed and installed in accordance with the provisions of this code.
   Add the following footnote to the title of IECC Table 402.1.1:
      k. Insulation and Fenestration Requirements By Component: k. For
residential log home building thermal envelope construction requirements see §
402.6.
   Delete the rows in Table R402.1.2 for climate zones “5 and Marine 4” and “6”
and replace with the following:
 
TABLE R402.1.2
INSULATION AND FENESTRATION REQUIREMENTS BY COMPONENTa
        Fenestration Skylightb                      Wood                         Slabd
                               Glazed               Frame Mass   Floor Basementc R-    Crawlspacec
Climate                        Fenestration Ceiling Wall  Wall   R-    Wall R-   Value Wall R-
Zone    U-Factorb    U-Factor  SHGCb,e      R-Value R-    R-     Value Value     &     Value
                                                    Value Valuei                 Depth

5       0.32         0.55      NR           38      20 or 13/17  30g   15/19     10, 2 15/19
                                                    13+5h                        ft
6       0.30         0.55      NR           49      22 or 15/20  30g   15/19     10, 4 15/19
                                                    13+5h                        ft
 
   Add the following as footnote k to the title of Table R402.1.2 - Insulation
and Fenestration Requirements by Component: k. For residential log home
building thermal envelope construction requirements see § R402.6.
   Delete the rows in Table R402.1.4 for climate zones “5 and Marine 4” and “6”
and replace with the following:
 
TABLE R402.1.4
EQUIVALENT U-FACTORSa
                              Ceiling Frame  Mass    Floor  Basement Crawlspace
Climate Fenestration Skylight U-      Wall   Wall U- U-     Wall U-  Wall U-
Zone    U-factor     U-factor factor  U-     factorb factor factor   factor
                                      factor
5       0.32         0.55     0.030   0.060  0.082   0.033  0.050    0.055
6       0.30         0.55     0.026   0.057  0.060   0.033  0.050    0.055
 
   Delete § R402.4.1 and replace with the following: R402.4.1 Building thermal
envelope. 1. Until June 30, 2021, the building thermal envelope shall comply
with § R402.4.1.1 (Installation) and either § R402.4.1.2 (Testing) or §
R402.4.1.3 (Visual inspection). 2. Effective July 1, 2021, the building thermal
envelope of a minimum of 20% of all new single-family homes constructed by each
builder shall comply with § R402.4.1.1 (Installation) and § R402.4.1.2
(Testing). The authority having jurisdiction may: 2.1. Determine how to enforce
this requirement, starting with the fifth house and continuing with each
subsequent fifth house. 2.2. Waive this requirement if significant testing
indicates the five air changes per hour (ACH) requirement is consistently being
met or exceeded (resulting in a lower ACH). 2.3. Grant exceptions to this
requirement in rural areas where testing equipment is not available or cost
effective. 3. Effective July 1, 2021, the building thermal envelope of 80% of
all new single-family homes constructed by each builder shall comply with §
R402.4.1.1 (Installation) and either § R402.4.1.2 (Testing) or § R402.4.1.3
(Visual inspection). 4. The sealing methods between dissimilar materials shall
allow for differential expansion and contraction.
   Delete § R402.4.1.1 and replace with the following: R402.4.1.1 Installation.
The components of the building thermal envelope as listed in Table R402.4.1.1
shall be installed in accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions and the
criteria listed in Table R402.4.1.1, as applicable to the method of
construction.
   Delete § R402.4.1.2 and replace with the following: R402.4.1.2 Testing.
Testing building envelope tightness and insulation installation shall be
considered acceptable when tested air leakage is less than five air changes per
hour (ACH) when tested with a blower door at a pressure of 33.5 psf (50 Pa).
Testing shall occur after rough in and after installation of penetrations of
the building envelope, including penetrations for utilities, plumbing,
electrical, ventilation and combustion appliances. Testing shall be conducted
in accordance with RESNET/ICC 380, ASTM E 779 or ASTM E 1827 and reported at a
pressure of 0.2-inch w.g. (50 Pascals). During testing: 1. Exterior windows and
doors, fireplace and stove doors shall be closed, but not sealed. 2. Dampers
shall be closed, but not sealed, including exhaust, intake, makeup air,
backdraft and flue dampers. 3. Interior doors shall be open. 4. Exterior
openings for continuous ventilation systems and heat recovery ventilators shall
be closed and sealed. 5. Heating and cooling system(s) shall be turned off. 6.
HVAC ducts shall not be sealed. 7. Supply and return registers shall not be
sealed.
   Add the following as § R402.4.1.3: R402.4.1.3 Visual inspection. Building
envelope tightness and insulation installation shall be considered acceptable
when the items listed in Table R402.4.1.1, applicable to the method of
construction, are field verified. Where required by code official an approved
party independent from the installer of the insulation shall inspect the air
barrier and insulation.
   Delete § IECC 402.4.3 and replace with the following:
   Fireplaces. New wood-burning fireplaces shall have tight-fitting flue
dampers and outdoor combustion air.
   Add the following as § R402.6: R402.6 Residential log home thermal envelope.
Residential log home construction shall comply with § R401 (General), § R402.4
(Air leakage), § R402.5 (Maximum fenestration U-factor and SHGC), § R403.1
(Controls), the mandatory sections of §§ R403.3 through R403.9, § R404
(Electrical Power and Lighting Systems), and either 1., 2. or 3. as follows: 1.
§§ R402.2 through R402.3, § R403.3.1 (Insulation), § R404.1 (Lightning
equipment) and Table R402.6 (Log Home Prescriptive Thermal Envelope
Requirements by Component). 2. Section R405 (Simulated Performance
Alternative). 3. REScheck (U.S. Department of Energy Building Codes Program).
   Add the following as Table R402.6:
TABLE 402.6 LOG HOME PRESCRIPTIVE THERMAL ENVELOPE REQUIREMENTS BY COMPONENT
For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm.
                                                   Min.                   Slab   Crawl
Climate Fenestration Skylight Glazed       Ceiling Average Floor Basement R-     Space
Zone    U-Factora    U-Factor Fenestration R-Value Log     R-    Wall R-  Value  Wall
                              SHGC                 Size In Value Valued   &      R-
                                                   Inches                 Depthb Valued
TABLE 402.6 LOG HOME PRESCRIPTIVE THERMAL ENVELOPE REQUIREMENTS BY COMPONENT
For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm.
                                                      Min.                   Slab   Crawl
Climate    Fenestration Skylight Glazed       Ceiling Average Floor Basement R-     Space
Zone       U-Factora    U-Factor Fenestration R-Value Log     R-    Wall R-  Value  Wall
                                 SHGC                 Size In Value Valued   &      R-
                                                      Inches                 Depthb Valued
5, 6 -
High                                                                         10.4
efficiency 0.32         0.60     NR           49      5       30    15/19    ft.    10/13
equipment
pathc
5          0.32         0.60     NR           49      8       30    10/13    10.2   10/13
                                                                             ft.
6          0.30         0.60     NR           49      8       30    15/19    10.4   10/13
                                                                             ft.
a. The fenestration U-factor column excludes skylights. The SHGC column applies to all
glazed fenestration.
b. R-5 shall be added to the required slab edge R-values for heated slabs.
c. 90% AFUE natural gas or propane, 84% AFUE oil or 15 SEER heat pump heating equipment
(zonal electric resistance heating equipment such as electric base board electric
resistance heating equipment as the sole source for heating is considered compliant with
the high efficiency equipment path).
d. “15/19” means R-15 continuous insulated sheathing on the interior or exterior of the
home or R-19 cavity insulation at the interior of the basement wall. “15/19” shall be
permitted to be met with R-13 cavity insulation on the interior of the basement wall plus
R-5 continuous insulated sheathing on the interior or exterior of the home. “10/13” means
R-10 continuous insulated sheathing on the interior or exterior of the home or R-13 cavity
insulation at the interior of the basement wall.
 
   Delete § R403.5.3 and replace with the following: R403.5.3 Hot water pipe
insulation (Prescriptive). Insulation for hot water piping with a thermal
resistance, R-value, of not less than R-3 shall be applied to the following: 1.
Piping serving more than one dwelling unit. 2. Piping located outside the
conditioned space. 3. Piping located under a floor slab. 4. Buried piping. 5.
Supply and return piping in recirculation systems other than demand
recirculation systems.
   Delete Tables R403.4 Minimum Depth (D) and Width (W) of Crushed Stone
Footings (inches), R403.1(1) Minimum Width and Thickness for Concrete Footings
for Light-Frame Construction (inches), R403.1(2) Minimum Width and Thickness
for Concrete Footings for Light-Frame Construction and Brick Veneer (inches),
and R403.1(3) Minimum Width and Thickness for Concrete Footings with Cast-in-
Place or Fully Grouted Masonry Wall Construction (inches).
   Add the following as Table R403.1:
TABLE R403.1
MINIMUM WIDTH OF CONCRETE, PRECAST, OR MASONRY FOOTINGS (inches)a
 LOAD-BEARING VALUE OF SOIL (psf)
TABLE R403.1
MINIMUM WIDTH OF CONCRETE, PRECAST, OR MASONRY FOOTINGS (inches)a
        LOAD-BEARING VALUE OF SOIL (psf)
       1,500 2,000 3,000 > 4,000
Conventional light-frame construction
1-story 12    12    12    12
2-story 15    12    12    12
3-story 23    17    12    12
4-inch brick veneer over light frame or 8-inch hollow concrete masonry
1-story 12    12    12    12
2-story 21    16    12    12
3-story 32    24    16    12
8-inch solid or fully grouted masonry
1-story 16    12    12    12
2-story 29    21    14    12
3-story 42    32    21    16
For SI: 1 inch = 25.4 mm, 1 pound per square foot = 0.0479 kPa.
a. Where minimum footing width is 12 inches, use of a single wythe of solid
or fully grouted 12-inch nominal concrete masonry units is permitted.
 
   Delete § R403.1.1 and replace with the following: R403.1.1 Minimum size.
Minimum sizes for concrete and masonry footings shall be as set forth in Table
R403.1 and Figure R403.1(1). The footing width (W) shall be based on the load
bearing value of the soil in accordance with Table R401.4.1. Spread footings
shall be at least six inches in thickness (T). Footing projections (P) shall be
at least two inches and shall not exceed the thickness of the footing. The size
of footings supporting piers and columns shall be based on the tributary load
and allowable soil pressure in accordance with Table R401.4.1. Footings for
wood foundations shall be in accordance with the details set forth in § R403.2
and Figures R403.1(2) and R403.1(3).
   Delete § R404.1 and replace with the following: R404.1 Lighting equipment
(Mandatory). A minimum of 75% of the lamps in permanently installed lighting
fixtures shall be high-efficacy lamps or a minimum of 75% of the permanently
installed lighting fixtures shall contain only high efficacy lamps.
   Delete § R406.3 and replace with the following: R406.3 Energy Rating Index.
The Energy Rating Index (ERI) shall be determined in accordance with RESNET/ICC
301. Energy used to recharge or refuel a vehicle used for transportation on
roads that are not on the building site shall not be included in the ERI
reference design or the rated design.
   Delete Table R406.4 and replace with the following:
 
Table R406.4 - Maximum Energy Rating Index
Climate Zone Energy Rating Indexa
5            68
6            68
a. Where on-site renewable energy is included for compliance using the ERI
analysis of § R406.4, the building shall meet the mandatory requirements of §
R406.2, and the building thermal envelope shall be greater than or equal to the
levels of efficiency and SHGC in Table R402.1.2 or Table R402.1.4 of the 2015
International Energy Conservation Code.
 
   Delete § R602.10 and replace with the following: R602.10 Wall bracing.
Buildings shall be braced in accordance with this section or, when applicable §
R602.12, or the most current edition of APA System Report SR-102 as an
alternate method. Where a building, or portion thereof, does not comply with
one or more of the bracing requirements in this section, those portions shall
be designed and constructed in accordance with § R301.1.
   References to Other Codes. Where any provisions of the codes that are
adopted in this section make reference to other construction and safety-related
model codes or standards which have not been adopted by the city, to the extent
possible, such reference should be construed as pertaining to the equivalent
code or standard that has been duly adopted by the city.
   Delete IRC § N1102.4.3 and replace with the following:
   Fireplaces. New wood-burning fireplaces shall have tight-fitting flue
dampers and outdoor combustion air.
   IBC Table 2902.1, “Footnote F” is amended to read: “f. Drinking fountains
are not required for an occupant load of 30 or fewer.”
   IBC Table 2902.1, “Footnote G” is amended to read: “g. For business
occupancies, excluding restaurants, and mercantile occupancies with an occupant
load of 30 or fewer, service sinks shall not be required.”
   Add the following as § C101.5.2: C101.5.2 Industrial, electronic and
manufacturing equipment. Buildings or portions thereof that are heated or
cooled exclusively to maintain the required operating temperature of
industrial, electronic or manufacturing equipment shall be exempt from the
provisions of this code. Such buildings or portions thereof shall be separated
from connected conditioned space by building thermal envelope assemblies
complying with this code.
   Add the following as an exception under § C402.5 Air leakage– thermal
envelope (Mandatory): Exception: For buildings having over 50,000 square feet
of conditioned floor area, air leakage testing shall be permitted to be
conducted on less than the whole building, provided the following portions of
the building are tested and their measured air leakage is area-weighted by the
surface areas of the building envelope: 1. The entire floor area of all stories
that have any spaces directly under a roof. 2.The entire floor area of all
stories that have a building entrance or loading dock. 3. Representative above-
grade wall sections of the building totaling at least 25% of the above-grade
wall area enclosing the remaining conditioned space. Floor area tested under
subparagraphs 1. or 2. of this exception shall not be included in the 25% of
above grade wall sections tested under this subparagraph.
   Add the following as exception number 7 under § C403.5 Economizers
(Prescriptive): 7.Unusual outdoor air contaminate conditions - Systems where
special outside air filtration and treatment for the reduction and treatment of
unusual outdoor contaminants, makes an air economizer infeasible.
   Delete Table C404.5.1 and replace with the following:
TABLES C404.5.1
PIPING VOLUME AND MAXIMUM PIPING LENGTHS
NORMAL PIPE SIZE VOLUME             MAXIMUM PIPING LENGTH
(inches)         (Liquid ounces per Public Lavatory Faucets Other Fixtures and
                 foot length)                               Appliances
TABLES C404.5.1
PIPING VOLUME AND MAXIMUM PIPING LENGTHS
NORMAL PIPE SIZE VOLUME             MAXIMUM PIPING LENGTH
(inches)         (Liquid ounces per Public Lavatory Faucets Other Fixtures and
                 foot length)                               Appliances
1/4              0.33               31                      50
5/16             0.5                N/A - non-standard size 50
3/8              0.75               17                      50
1/2              1.5                10                      43
5/8              2                  7                       32
3/4              3                  5                       21
7/8              4                  N/A - non-standard size 16
1                5                  3                       13
1 1/4            8                  2                       8
1 1/2            11                 1                       6
2 or larger      18                 1                       4
For SI: 1 inch = 25.4 mm; 1 foot = 304.8 mm; 1 liquid ounce = 0.030 L; 1
gallon = 128 ounces.
 
(Ord. 2852, passed 12-20-2010; Ord. 2951, passed 11-18-2013; Ord. 3021, passed
11-16-2015; Ord. 3044, passed 3-7-2016; Ord. 3127, passed 12-18-2017; Ord.
3305, passed 12-21-2020)
§ 12-01-23 POLE BUILDINGS OR LOG STRUCTURES.
   Any pole building or log structure shall require the design to be completed
and stamped by a licensed architect or engineer, licensed in the state.
Structural design calculations shall be submitted with the permit application
and construction documents as per Chapter 16 of the International Building
Code.
(Ord. 2673, passed 4-3-2007)
§ 12-01-25 MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   All manufactured homes installed within the city limits shall meet the
installation requirements provided by the manufacturer. When manufacturer
requirements are not available due to the age of the structure, the
installation shall meet the requirements as set forth by the state.
   (B)   A certificate of completion shall be issued in lieu of a certificate
of occupancy for manufactured home installations or any additional construction
in relation to the installation of the manufactured home.
   (C)   Any construction attached to a manufactured home that would impose a
structural roof, wind or floor load shall require engineering from a licensed
architect or engineer, licensed in the state. In addition, any alterations or
repair to a manufactured home shall require such alteration or repair to be
approved and stamped by a licensed architect or engineer, licensed in the
state.
   (D)   Any manufactured home constructed prior to June 15, 1976, shall first
satisfy the rehabilitation requirements of the state and shall first receive a
certificate of completion issued by the State Department of Building Safety
Administrator prior to the relocation of such manufactured home, and prior to
any permits being issued within the city.
(Ord. 2673, passed 4-3-2007; Ord. 2799, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 12-01-27 BOARD UP PROCEDURES.
   Whenever the enforcement of any provision of this title, or of any other
local, state or federal law, requires that a building or structure be secured
from entry, said building or structure shall be secured from entry in
accordance with and pursuant to the procedures set forth in the most recently
published edition of the pamphlet entitled “Board Up Procedures,” issued by the
U.S. Fire Administration, a division of the U.S. Department of Homeland
Security’s Federal Emergency Management Agency.
(Ord. 3305, passed 12-21-2020)
CHAPTER 3: MOVING BUILDINGS
Section
   
12-03-01   Moving buildings and duties of owners
   
12-03-03   Permit; application
   
12-03-05   Notice of time of moving
   
12-03-07   Duty of public service corporations
§ 12-03-01 MOVING BUILDINGS AND DUTIES OF OWNERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to move any building along, over
or through any public place within the corporate limits without first having
applied to and obtained from the Building Inspector a permit so to do and
without thereafter complying with all the provisions of said permit and this
chapter. Further, before any building or structure for which a moving permit is
required is moved into or within the city, the owner or his or her agent shall:
      (1)   Provide the Building Department with present location and future
destination of the building structure to be moved; and
      (2)   Upon written notification prior to moving, the Building Department
shall cause the building or structure to be inspected and examined for
compliance with all codes applicable and to see that it will be consistent with
the type of buildings or structures in the area to which it will be moved as
not to depreciate the value of surrounding property.
   (B)   Before any building is moved over or on any public street, the Police
Department shall be notified, and they shall direct the moving at the time and
route designated by them.
(Ord. 1640, passed 3-1-1983)
§ 12-03-03 PERMIT; APPLICATION.
   In order to obtain a permit, the applicant therefor shall file with the
Building Inspector an application in writing. Said application shall contain
accurate statements of the kind and character of building it is proposed to
move, its dimensions, the materials out of which it is constructed, the legal
description of the premises upon which it is to be moved, a description of the
route over which it is proposed to move the same, and a description of the
means to be employed in moving such building.
(Ord. 1640, passed 3-1-1983)
§ 12-03-05 NOTICE OF TIME OF MOVING.
   Whenever any person has secured a permit for moving under the provisions of
this chapter, he or she shall give to all public service corporations owning or
operating public utilities along or across any of the streets included in the
permit, written notice of the time and when the work of moving is to be
commenced. Said notice shall be in writing and shall be served at least 24
hours before the proposed time of commencing the moving.
§ 12-03-07 DUTY OF PUBLIC SERVICE CORPORATIONS.
   Upon receipt of such notice, it shall be the duty of such public service
corporation to move, raise or otherwise dispose of its wires or other
instrumentalities in such time and manner as will not cause delay to the holder
of the permit, all of which shall be done at the expense of the applicant.
CHAPTER 5: PLUMBING REGULATIONS
Section
   
12-05-01   Adoption of the State Plumbing Code
   
12-05-03   Conducting plumbing business
   
12-05-05   Permit fees; permit revocation
   
12-05-07   Damage not assumed by municipality
   
12-05-09   Violations and penalties
§ 12-05-01 ADOPTION OF THE STATE PLUMBING CODE.
   There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing minimum standards of
design, materials and workmanship for all plumbing hereafter installed, altered
or repaired and to establish methods of procedure within the limits of this
city the most current version of that certain plumbing code known as the State
Plumbing Code, as set forth in Idaho Code §§ 54-2601 et seq., as it may be
amended from time to time, as well as all rules and regulations promulgated by
the State Plumbing Board pursuant to the authority granted to it under Idaho
Code § 54-2606. Copies of the most current version of the State Plumbing Code
and the aforementioned rules and regulations are on file in the office of the
Building Official, and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as
if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 2951, passed 11-18-2013)
§ 12-05-03 CONDUCTING PLUMBING BUSINESS.
   (A)   State contractor’s license required to engage in business.
      (1)   Any individual or firm desiring to engage in the business of a
plumbing contractor must first obtain a current plumbing contractor’s license
from the state.
      (2)   Excepted from this licensing requirement shall be the seller of
plumbing appliances at retail, who in the regular course of business must
connect the appliance to the existing plumbing system, provided there is no
extended plumbing that requires over five feet of pipe in any direction.
      (3)   The only other exception shall be a homeowner meeting the following
criteria:
         (a)   Show proof of ownership;
         (b)   Occupies or intends to occupy the home for a period of 180 days
from the date of completion of work; and
         (c)   A permit to be issued only for residential.
   (B)   City registration. Before any person shall carry on or engage in the
work or business of plumbing installations in the city, he or she shall first
register at the Department of Building Safety. Every applicant for registration
shall present his or her state plumbing contractor’s license. The registration
shall be valid for one year starting January 1 of each year regardless of the
date the applicant registers.
(Ord. 1776, passed 3-21-1988; Ord. 2673, passed 4-3-2007)
§ 12-05-05 PERMIT FEES; PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   Payment of fees. Applicants for permits issued pursuant to this
chapter shall pay to the Building Official fees established by the Building
Official by rules and regulations subject to the approval of the City Council.
   (B)   Refunds. Before commencement of any activity regulated under the
issuance of a valid permit, the Building Official may authorize the refunding
of no more than 80% of permit fees paid, when requested in writing by letter or
form, and all rights granted by the permits are terminated. Plan review fees
and deposits, if any, shall not be refundable.
   (C)   Permit revocation. The Building Official may revoke any permit issued
in error, any permit issued on the basis of incorrect information or upon
learning of work which has been performed in violation of this code or any
other law of the state. Upon revocation, the permit holder shall cease all work
until such time that a new permit has been issued or written notification of
reactivation of the nullified permit has been received.
(Ord. 2910, passed 5-21-2012; Ord. 3044, passed 3-7-2016)
§ 12-05-07 DAMAGE NOT ASSUMED BY MUNICIPALITY.
   This chapter shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility of any person owning, using or installing any plumbing or
plumbing fixtures, for damages to anyone injured or damages either in person or
property by any defect therein; nor shall the city or any agent thereof be held
as assuming such liability by reason of inspection authorized herein or
certificates of inspection issued by the administrative authority.
(Ord. 1712, passed 10-21-1985)
§ 12-05-09 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine and/or imprisonment, up to, but not exceeding, the maximum penalties set
forth in Idaho Code § 50-302, as amended. Each separate day or any portion
thereof during which any violation of this chapter occurs or continues shall be
deemed to constitute a separate offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punishable as herein provided. In addition to or in place of other penalties
provided by this code, failure to obtain a permit when required shall cause
that permit fee to be quadrupled.
(Ord. 2669, passed 2-20-2007)
CHAPTER 7: ELECTRICAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
12-07-01   Adoption of National Electrical Code
   
12-07-03   Adoption of Uniform Administrative Code
   
12-07-05   Conducting electrician business
   
12-07-07   Permit fees; permit revocation
   
12-07-09   Energizing of the electrical system
   
12-07-11   Electric signs
   
12-07-13   Rules and regulations governing wiring
   
12-07-15   Damage not assumed by municipality
   
12-07-17   Violations and penalties
§ 12-07-01 ADOPTION OF NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE.
   There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing minimum standards of
design, materials and workmanship for all electrical installations hereafter
installed, altered or repaired and to establish methods of procedure within the
limits of this municipality that certain electrical code known as the National
Electrical Code published by the National Fire Protection Association, being
the current edition of said code as adopted by the state, and the whole
thereof, except as amended by making insertions hereinbelow, and of which not
less than three copies, including copies of said insertions, deletions,
substitutions, additions or amendments have been and now are filed in the
office of the City Clerk, and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated as
fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 1713, passed 10-21-1985)
§ 12-07-03 ADOPTION OF UNIFORM ADMINISTRATIVE CODE.
   [Reserved]
(Repealed by Ord. 2673, passed 4-3-2007)
§ 12-07-05 CONDUCTING ELECTRICIAN BUSINESS.
   (A)   State contractor’s license required to engage in business.
      (1)   (a)   Any individual or firm desiring to engage in the business of
an electrical contractor must first obtain a current electrical contractor’s
license from the state.
         (b)   Excepted from this licensing requirement shall be the seller of
electrical appliances at retail, who in the regular course of business connects
appliances to electrical wiring systems, provided there is no alteration in the
system or any required new wiring.
      (2)   The only other exception shall be the homeowner who:
         (a)   Can show proof of ownership;
         (b)   Occupies or intends to occupy the home for a period of 180 days
from the permit date; and
         (c)   A permit to be issued only for residential.
   (B)   City registration. Before any person shall carry on or engage in the
work or business of electrical installations in the city, he or she shall first
register at the Department of Building Safety. Every applicant for registration
shall present his or her state electrical contractor’s license. The
registration shall be valid for one year starting January 1 of each year
regardless of the date the applicant registers.
(Ord. 1777, passed 3-21-1988; Ord. 2673, passed 4-3-2007)
§ 12-07-07 PERMIT FEES; PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   Payment of fees. Applicants for permits issued pursuant to this
chapter shall pay to the Building Official fees established by the Building
Official by rules and regulations subject to the approval of the City Council.
   (B)   Refunds. Before commencement of any activity regulated under the
issuance of a valid permit, the Building Official may authorize the refunding
of no more than 80% of permit fees paid, when requested in writing by letter or
form, and all rights granted by the permits are terminated. Plan review fees
and deposits, if any, shall not be refundable.
   (C)   Permit revocation. The Building Official may revoke any permit issued
in error, any permit issued on the basis of incorrect information or upon
learning of work which has been performed in violation of this code or any
other law of the state. Upon revocation the permit holder shall cease all work
until such time that a new permit has been issued or written notification of
reactivation of the nullified permit has been received.
(Ord. 2910, passed 5-21-2012; Ord. 3044, passed 3-7-2016)
§ 12-07-09 ENERGIZING OF THE ELECTRICAL SYSTEM.
   The power company shall not connect to or furnish electrical energy to any
electrical installation until notified by the Building Official that the final
inspection has been made and the work found satisfactory; provided, that
temporary connection may be made upon approval of same by the Electrical
Inspector. The Electrical Inspector shall have the power to enter any building
in the city for the purpose of inspecting any new or existing electrical
installation and shall have the power to condemn and cause the removal of or
repair of any installation found unsafe and faulty. Notice of such condemnation
shall be given the owner or occupant of such building in writing, and if the
defects are not corrected within a reasonable time, the Electrical Inspector
shall order the power company to disconnect the service to the building and to
refrain from furnishing electrical energy to the building which contains the
defective installation.
(Ord. 1713, passed 10-21-1985)
§ 12-07-11 ELECTRIC SIGNS.
   All electric signs shall be erected under the supervision of the Building
Inspector, and such erection shall require a permit.
(Ord. 1713, passed 10-21-1985)
§ 12-07-13 RULES AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING WIRING.
   (A)   Types of wiring in buildings. For the purpose of this section, Group R
Division 1 occupancies (hotels, motels and boarding houses, transient in
nature) three or more stories in height or containing 13 or more guestrooms,
shall require the electrical wiring to be installed in conduit or in electrical
metallic tubing or surface metal raceway.
   (B)   Range wiring. All range wiring shall be at least three No. 8 B and S
gauge wiring of an approved type cable.
(Ord. 1713, passed 10-21-1985; Ord. 2814, passed 12-7-2009)
§ 12-07-15 DAMAGE NOT ASSUMED BY MUNICIPALITY.
   This chapter shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility of any person owning, using or installing any electrical system
or electrical fixtures for damages to anyone injured or damages either in
person or property by any defect therein; nor shall the city or any agent
thereof be held as assuming such liability by reason of inspection authorized
herein or certificates of inspection issued by the administrative authority.
(Ord. 1713, passed 10-21-1985)
§ 12-07-17 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this code shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine and/or imprisonment, up to, but not exceeding, the maximum penalties set
forth in Idaho Code § 50-302, as amended. Each separate day or any portion
thereof during which any violation of this code occurs or continues shall be
deemed to constitute a separate offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punishable as herein provided. In addition to or in place of other penalties
provided by this code, failure to obtain a permit when required shall cause
that permit fee to be quadrupled.
(Ord. 2669, passed 2-20-2007)
CHAPTER 9: INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
   
12-09-01   Adoption of the International Property Maintenance Code; amendments
   
12-09-03   Authority
§ 12-09-01 ADOPTION OF THE INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE; AMENDMENTS.
   The “2018 International Property Maintenance Code,” including Appendix A, is
hereby adopted as the Property Maintenance Code of the City of Caldwell, Idaho,
regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property,
buildings and structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and
facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that
structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the
condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and
the demolition of such existing structures in the city, with the following
additions or amendments.
   IPMC § 101.1, “Title,” is amended to read as follows:
      101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the International
Property Maintenance Code of the City of Caldwell, Idaho, hereinafter referred
to as “this code.”
   IPMC § 103.5, “Fees,” is amended to read as follows:
      The fees for activities and services performed by the Department in
carrying out its responsibilities under this code shall be as established by
resolution of the city.
   IPMC § 111, “Means of Appeal” is deleted and repealed in its entirety.
   IPMC § 112.4, “Failure to comply,” is amended to read as follows:
      112.4 Failure to comply. Any person who shall continue any work after
having been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is
directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be in
violation of this ordinance, and subject to the penalties set forth in §
01-01-05 of the Caldwell City Code.
   IPMC § 302.4, “Weeds” is deleted and repealed in its entirety.
   IPMC § 302.8, “Motor Vehicles” is deleted and repealed in its entirety.
   IPMC § 304.14, “Insect Screens,” is deleted and repealed in its entirety.
   IPMC § 308, “Rubbish and Garbage,” is deleted and repealed in its entirety.
   IPMC § 404.4 “Bedroom and Living Room Requirements,” is amended to read as
follows:
      404.4 Bedroom and Living Room Requirements. Every bedroom and living room
shall comply with the requirements of §§ 404.4.1, 404.4.4 and 404.4.5.
   IPMC § 404.4.1 “Room Area,” is amended to read as follows:
      404.4.1 Room Area. Every living room shall contain at least 120 square
feet and every bedroom shall contain a minimum of 70 square feet. and every
bedroom occupied by more than two persons shall contain a minimum of 50 square
feet of floor area for each occupant thereof.
   IPMC § 404.4.3 “Water closet accessibility,” is deleted and repealed in its
entirety.
   IPMC § 502.4.1 “Drinking facilities,” is amended to read as follows:
      502.4.1 Drinking facilities. Drinking facilities shall be a drinking
fountain per Chapter 29 of the International Building Code. Drinking facilities
shall not be located in toilet rooms or bathrooms.
   IPMC § 505.4 “Water heating facilities” is amended to read as follows:
      505.4 Water heating facilities. Water heating facilities shall be
properly installed, maintained and capable of providing an adequate amount of
water to be drawn at every required sink, lavatory, shower and laundry facility
at a temperature not less than 110°F (43°C). A gas-burning water heater shall
not be located in any bathroom, toilet room, bedroom or other occupied room
normally kept closed, unless installation meets the requirements of the
International Fuel Gas Code. An approved combination temperature and pressure-
relief valve and relief valve discharge pipe shall be properly installed and
maintained on water heaters.
   IPMC § 602.3, “Heat Supply,” is amended to read as follows:
      602.3 Heat supply. Every owner and operator of any building who rents,
leases or lets one or more dwelling units or sleeping units on terms, either
expressed or implied, to furnish heat to the occupants thereof shall supply
heat to maintain a minimum temperature of 68°F (20°C) in all habitable rooms,
bathrooms and toilet rooms.
      Exceptions:
         1.   When the outdoor temperature is below the winter outdoor design
temperature for the locality, maintenance of the minimum room temperature shall
not be required provided that the heating system is operating at its full
design capacity. The winter outdoor design temperature for the locality shall
be as indicated in Appendix D of the International Plumbing Code.
   IPMC § 602.4 “Occupiable Work Spaces,” is amended to read as follows:
      602.4 Occupiable work spaces. Indoor occupiable work spaces shall be
supplied with heat to maintain a minimum temperature of 65°F (18°C) during the
period the spaces are occupied.
      Exceptions:
         1.   Processing, storage and operation areas that require cooling or
special temperature conditions.
         2.   Areas in which persons are primarily engaged in vigorous physical
activities.
   IPMC § 702.3 “Locked Doors” is amended to read as follows:
      702.3 Locked doors. Means of egress doors shall be readily openable from
the side from which egress is to be made without the need for keys, special
knowledge or effort, except where the door hardware conforms to that permitted
in the International Building Code or International Fire Code.
   IPMC § 704, “Fire Protection Systems” is repealed and regulated under the
International Fire Code and International Building Code.
(Ord. 3305, passed 12-21-2020)
§ 12-09-03 AUTHORITY.
   All references in the International Property Maintenance Code to the
Department of Property Maintenance inspection shall be deemed to refer to the
City Department of Building Safety. The City Building Official is hereby
designated as the executive official in charge, also referred to in the code as
the Code Official, and is hereby authorized and directed to enforce all the
provisions of this code.
(Ord. 3305, passed 12-21-2020)
CHAPTER 11: SIGN REGULATIONS
Section
   
12-11-01   Adoption of Uniform Sign Code
   
12-11-03   Authority
   
12-11-05   Permit requirements
   
12-11-07   Exemptions
   
12-11-09   Inspections
   
12-11-11   Design requirements
   
12-11-13   Glass panels
   
12-11-15   Permit fees
   
12-11-17   Electrical permit
   
12-11-19   Projections and clearances
   
12-11-21   Conflict
§ 12-11-01 ADOPTION OF UNIFORM SIGN CODE.
   All the rules, regulations and ordinances of a general and permanent
character relating and applying to, and regulating, the erection, construction,
enlargement, replacement, location and electrification of all signs and sign
structures not located within a building. These rules and regulations shall be
in code book form, designated and entitled “1997 Uniform Sign Code,” be and the
same hereby ratified and adopted as the Sign Code of the city and as ratified
and adopted shall be the rules, regulations and ordinances governing the
erection, construction, enlargement, replacement, location and electrification
of signs and sign structures within the city. The purpose of this code is to
provide minimum standards to safeguard life, health, property and public
welfare. This code is not to be confused with § 10-02-06 of the zoning
regulations which lists zoning regulations for signs.
(Ord. 2799, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 12-11-03 AUTHORITY.
   The Building Official is hereby authorized and directed to enforce all the
provisions of this chapter. For such purposes, the Building Official shall have
the powers of a law enforcement officer.
(Ord. 2799, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 12-11-05 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   A sign shall not hereafter be erected, reerected, constructed, enlarged,
replaced or electrified except as provided in this code, without the issuance
of a permit issued by the Building Official. A separate permit shall be
required for a sign or signs for each business entity and a separate permit
shall be required for each group of signs on a single supporting structure,
except that wall signs on one or more than one wall of a building shall not
require separate permits if designed and installed as a group at one time. In
addition, an electrical permit shall be required for any electric signs. When
permit requirements conflict with §
10-02-06 of the zoning regulations, the most restrictive shall apply. Any sign
erected, reerected, constructed, enlarged, replaced or electrified without a
permit issued by the Building Official shall be subject to an investigation fee
of double the permit fee.
(Ord. 2799, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 12-11-07 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following signs listed below shall not require a sign permit. These
exemptions shall not be construed as relieving the owner of the sign from the
responsibility of its erection and maintenance and its compliance with the
provisions of this city code or any other law or ordinance regulating the same:
   (A)   The changing of only the advertising copy or message on a painted or
printed sign;
   (B)   Painting or cleaning of an advertising structure or the changing of
the advertising message thereon unless a structural change is made;
   (C)   Temporary signs;
   (D)   Signs erected by transportation authorities;
   (E)   Projecting signs not exceeding two and one-half square feet in size;
and
   (F)   Individual lettering that is individually attached directly to a
building, structure or display surface when each individual letter is less than
two and one-half square feet in size.
(Ord. 2799, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 12-11-09 INSPECTIONS.
   All signs for which a permit is required shall be subject to inspection by
the Building Inspector. A footing inspection shall be required for all sign
structures having footings, anchorage fasteners and reinforcement, such as pole
or ground signs. All signs containing electrical wiring shall be subject to the
provisions of the National Electrical Code concurrent with the state.
Electrical signs and components shall bear the label of an approved testing
agency. The Building Official may order the removal of any sign that is not
maintained in accordance with the provisions of the governing code.
(Ord. 2799, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 12-11-11 DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   All pole, ground, wall, projecting and combination signs and sign structures
shall be designed and constructed to resist wind and seismic forces, live and
dead load forces and working stresses, all in accordance with the current
adopted edition of the Uniform Sign Code and International Building Code. The
following signs shall require installation and design calculations designed by
a licensed architect or licensed engineer, currently licensed in the state.
Documents shall bear the original insignia of said architect or engineer:
   (A)   Pole or ground signs 12 feet and greater above adjoining grade when
supporting a display surface of greater than 64 square feet;
   (B)   All pole or ground signs 15 feet and greater above adjoining grade;
   (C)   Any projecting sign with a projection of greater than five feet, and/
or when exceeding the requirements set forth in Tables 4-B and 4-C of the
Uniform Sign Code; and
   (D)   Wall signs where one individual section of the wall sign exceeds 64
square feet in area.
(Ord. 2799, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 12-11-13 GLASS PANELS.
   Glass panels when used as part of the display surface shall meet the
requirements of Table 4-A of the Uniform Sign Code.
(Ord. 2799, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 12-11-15 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Payment of fees. Applicants for permits issued pursuant to this
chapter shall pay to the Building Official fees established by the Building
Official by rules and regulations subject to the approval of the City Council.
   (B)   Refunds. Before commencement of any activity regulated under the
issuance of a valid permit, the Building Official may authorize the refunding
of no more than 80% of permit fees paid, when requested in writing by letter or
form, and all rights granted by the permits are terminated. Plan review fees
and deposits, if any, shall not be refundable.
(Ord. 2910, passed 5-21-2012)
§ 12-11-17 ELECTRICAL PERMIT.
   All electric signs shall require an electrical permit issued by the Building
Official.
(Ord. 2799, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 12-11-19 PROJECTIONS AND CLEARANCES.
   All signs shall meet the requirements set forth in § 403 of the Uniform Sign
Code and the International Building Code, or §
10-02-06 of the zoning regulations, whichever is most restrictive.
(Ord. 2799, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 12-11-21 CONFLICT.
   When any part of this chapter is in conflict with any other portion of this
code, the most restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. 2799, passed 7-20-2009)
CHAPTER 13: MECHANICAL CODE AND FUEL GAS CODE
Section
   
12-13-01   Adoption of International Mechanical Code, International Fuel Gas
Code and Part V and Part VI of the International Residential Code for One- and
Two-Family Dwellings
   
12-13-02   Amendments to code
   
12-13-03   Permits required
   
12-13-04   Conducting mechanical business
   
12-13-05   Violations and penalties
   
12-13-06   Permit fees; permit revocation
§ 12-13-01 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE, INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS
CODE AND PART V AND PART VI OF THE INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE FOR ONE- AND
TWO-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   (A)   The following international codes are hereby adopted for the purpose
of establishing standards, rules and regulations for heating, ventilation and
air conditioning in buildings in the city:
      (1)   The International Mechanical Code, 2018 edition, including Appendix
A, as adopted by the state or the State Building Code Board, together with any
amendments or revisions made by the State Heating, Ventilation and Air
Conditioning Board through the negotiated rulemaking process;
      (2)   Intentional Fuel Gas Code, 2018 edition, including Appendices A, B,
C and D, as adopted by the state or the State Building Code Board, together
with any amendments or revisions made by the State Heating, Ventilation and Air
Conditioning Board through the negotiated rulemaking process; and
      (3)   Part V and Part VI of the International Residential Code for One-
and Two-Family Dwellings, 2018 edition, as adopted by the state or the State
Building Code Board, together with any amendments or revisions to the
International Building Code made by the State Building Code Board through the
negotiated rulemaking process.
   (B)   Copies of the above-referenced codes, including amendments or
revisions made by the State Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning Board,
are on file in the office of the Building Official.
(Ord. 2975, passed 8-18-2014; Ord. 3305, passed 12-20-2020)
§ 12-13-02 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
    IMC § 202, definition for “Registered Design Professional,” is amended to
read as follows: An individual who is registered or licensed to practice their
respective design profession as defined by the statutory requirements of the
professional registration laws of the state. For purposes of this definition,
the term “design profession” shall be limited to the practices of architecture
and engineering.
   IMC § 903 “Factory Built Fireplaces” add new section to read as follows:
      Section 903-4 Provisions for mitigating indoor air pollutants emitted by
unvented gas fireplaces. Unvented gas fireplaces shall not be permitted without
the installation of a supplemental whole-house ventilation strategy, which will
serve to provide a non-passive outside air source to the living space during
the time of fireplace operation. Such a strategy may be provided through the
installation of an approved air-to-air heat exchanger, or an engineered
ventilation system designed to mitigate those combustion by-products emitted by
the unvented gas burning appliance.
   IFGC § 202, definition for “Registered Design Professional,” is amended to
read as follows: An individual who is registered or licensed to practice their
respective design profession as defined by the statutory requirements of the
professional registration laws of the state. For purposes of this definition,
the term “design profession” shall be limited to the practices of architecture
and engineering.
(Ord. 3044, passed 3-7-2016)
§ 12-13-03 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to do, or cause to be done, any
mechanical equipment installations without first obtaining a mechanical permit
issued by the Building Official authorizing such work to be done.
(Ord. 2716, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 12-13-04 CONDUCTING MECHANICAL BUSINESS.
   (A)   State contractor’s license required to engage in business.
      (1)   Any individual or firm desiring to engage in the business of a
mechanical contractor must first obtain a current mechanical contractor’s
license from the state. Excepted from this licensing requirement shall be the
seller of mechanical appliances at retail.
      (2)   The further exception shall be the homeowner who:
         (a)   Can show proof of ownership;
         (b)   Occupies or intends to occupy the home for a period of 180 days
from the permit date; and
         (c)   A permit is issued only for residential construction.
   (B)   City registration. Before any person shall carry on or engage in the
work or business of mechanical installations in the city, he or she shall first
register at the Department of Building Safety. Every applicant for registration
shall present his or her state mechanical contractor’s license. The
registration shall be valid for one year starting January 1 of each year
regardless of the date the applicant registers.
   (C)   Gas piping installations. Any person engaging in the business of gas
piping installations shall be required to provide a license from the state.
(Ord. 2673, passed 4-3-2007)
§ 12-13-05 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine and/or imprisonment, up to, but not exceeding, the maximum penalties set
forth in Idaho Code § 50-302, as amended. Each separate day or any portion
thereof during which any violation of this code occurs or continues shall be
deemed to constitute a separate offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punishable as herein provided. In addition to or in place of other penalties
provided by this code, failure to obtain a permit when required shall cause
that permit fee to be quadrupled.
(Ord. 2716, passed 12-3-2007)
§ 12-13-06 PERMIT FEES; PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   Payment of fees. Applicants for permits issued pursuant to this
chapter shall pay to the Building Official fees established by the Building
Official by rules and regulations subject to the approval of the City Council.
   (B)   Refunds. Before commencement of any activity regulated under the
issuance of a valid permit, the Building Official may authorize the refunding
of no more than 80% of permit fees paid, when requested in writing by letter or
form, and all rights granted by the permits are terminated. Plan review fees
and deposits, if any, shall not be refundable.
   (C)   Permit revocation. The Building Official may revoke any permit issued
in error, any permit issued on the basis of incorrect information or upon
learning of work which has been performed in violation of this code or any
other law of the state. Upon revocation, the permit holder shall cease all work
until such time that a new permit has been issued or written notification of
reactivation of the nullified permit has been received.
(Ord. 2910, passed 5-21-2012; Ord. 3044, passed 3-7-2016)
CHAPTER 15: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
12-15-01   Statutory authorization, findings of fact, purpose and objectives
   
12-15-03   Definitions
   
12-15-05   General provisions
   
12-15-07   Administration
   
12-15-09   Provisions for flood hazard reduction
   
12-15-11   Legal status provisions
§ 12-15-01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Statutory authority. The legislature of the state in Idaho Code §§ 46-
1020 through 46-1024, authorized local government units to adopt a floodplain
map and floodplain management ordinance that identifies floodplains and that
sets forth minimum development requirements in floodplains that are designed to
promote the public health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry. The
city is further authorized by Idaho Code § 50-333 to “prevent the flooding of
the city,” and by portions of Idaho Code § 67-6518 to create and adopt the
standards found within this chapter.
   (B)   Findings of fact. The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to
periodic inundation that results in loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary
public expenditures for flood relief and protection and impairment of the tax
base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general
welfare.
      (1)   These flood losses are caused by development in flood hazard areas,
which are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or otherwise unprotected from
flood damages, and by the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains
causing increases in flood heights and velocities.
      (2)   Local government units have the primary responsibility for
planning, adoption and enforcement of land use regulations to accomplish proper
floodplain management.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      (1)   Protect human life, health and property;
      (2)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
purification and sewage treatment plants, water and gas mains, electric,
telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in floodplains;
      (3)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas;
      (4)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (5)   Minimize the need for rescue and emergency services associated with
flooding, generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (6)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (7)   Ensure potential buyers are notified the property is in an area of
special flood hazard; and
      (8)   Ensure those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions.
   (D)   Objectives. In order to accomplish its purpose, this chapter includes
methods and provisions to:
      (1)   Require that development which is vulnerable to floods, including
structures and facilities necessary for the general health, safety and welfare
of citizens, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (2)   Restrict or prohibit developments which are dangerous to health,
safety and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which increase flood
heights, velocities or erosion;
      (3)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage or erosion;
      (4)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers that will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or that may increase flood hazards to other
lands; and
      (5)   Preserve and restore natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which carry and store floodwaters.
(Ord. 2875, passed 5-16-2011; Ord. 3207, passed 3-4-2019)
§ 12-15-03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure on the same lot or
parcel as a principal structure, the use of which is incidental and subordinate
to the principal structure.
   ADDITION TO AN EXISTING BUILDING. An extension or increase in the floor area
or height of a building or structure.
   APPEAL. A request for review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of provisions of this chapter or request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO, AH, AR/AO or AR/AH Zone on a
community’s flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance
of flooding to an average depth of one foot to three feet where a clearly
defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and
where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding
or sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. See SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA).
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). A determination by the Federal Insurance
Administrator of the water surface elevations of the base flood, that is, the
flood level that has a 1% or greater chance of occurrence in any given year.
When the BFE has not been provided in a special flood hazard area, it may be
obtained from engineering studies available from a federal, state or other
source using FEMA-approved engineering methodologies. This elevation, when
combined with the freeboard, establishes the flood protection elevation.
   BASEMENT. The area of a building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. Facilities that are vital to flood response activities or
critical to the health and safety of the public before, during and after a
flood, such as a hospital, emergency operations center, electric substation,
police station, fire station, nursing home, school, vehicle and equipment
storage facility or shelter; and facilities that, if flooded, would make the
flood problem and its impacts much worse, such as a hazardous materials
facility, power generation facility, water utility or wastewater treatment
plant.
   DATUM. The vertical datum is a base measurement point (or set of points)
from which all elevations are determined. Historically, that common set of
points has been the National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929 (NGVD29). The
vertical datum currently adopted by the federal government as a basis for
measuring heights is the North American Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD88).
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITY. Any activity defined as DEVELOPMENT which will
necessitate a floodplain development permit, such as: the construction of
buildings, structures or accessory structures; additions or substantial
improvements to existing structures; bulkheads, retaining walls, piers and
pools; the placement of mobile homes; the deposition or extraction of
materials; or the construction or elevation of dikes, berms and levees.
   DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (DFIRM). The digital official map of a
community, issued by the Federal Insurance Administrator, on which both the
special flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the
community are delineated.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. For insurance purposes, a non-basement building which has
its lowest elevated floor raised above ground level by foundation walls, shear
walls, posts, piers, pilings or columns.
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. An important administrative tool of the NFIP. It is
used to determine the proper flood insurance premium rate; it is used to
document elevation information; and it may be used to support a request for a
letter of map amendment (LOMA) or letter of map revision based on fill (LOMR-
F).
   ENCLOSURE. An area enclosed by solid walls below the BFE/FPE or an area
formed when any space below the BFE/FPE is enclosed on all sides by walls or
partitions. Insect screening or open wood lattice used to surround space below
the BFE/FPE is not considered an ENCLOSURE.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, structures or development into a floodplain, which may impede or
alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the start of construction commenced before the effective date of the FIRM
or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision where the construction of facilities for
servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets and final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed
before the effective date of the original floodplain management regulations
adopted by the community May 2, 1975.
   EXISTING STRUCTURES. See EXISTING CONSTRUCTION.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING.
      (1)   A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from:
         (a)   The overflow of inland waters;
         (b)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source; and/or
         (c)   Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) which are proximately caused by
flooding as defined in division (1)(b) of this definition and are akin to a
river of liquid and flowing mud on the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as
when earth is carried by a current of water and deposited along the path of the
current.
      (2)   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or
other body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a
severe storm or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding as defined in division (1)(a) of this definition.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). The FBFM shows how the floodplain is
divided into the floodway and flood fringe where streams are studied in detail.
They also show general floodplain areas where floodplains have been studied by
approximate methods. (Old format pre 1986.)
   FLOOD ELEVATION DETERMINATION. See BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE).
   FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY. See FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS).
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of the city, issued by the
Federal Insurance Administrator, where the boundaries of the flood, mudslide
(i.e., mudflow) related erosion areas having special hazards have been
designated as Zones A, M and/or E.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of the community, issued by
the Federal Insurance Administration, delineating the areas of special flood
hazard and/or risk premium zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has
been made available digitally is called a DIGITAL FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP
(DFIRM).
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). An examination, evaluation and determination of
flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations; or
an examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or
flood-related erosion hazards.
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). The base flood elevation plus the
freeboard.
      (1)   In “special flood hazard areas” where base flood elevation (BFEs)
have been determined, this ELEVATION shall be the BFE plus one foot of
freeboard; and
      (2)   In “special flood hazard areas” where no BFE has been established,
this ELEVATION shall be at least two feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. The physical structural works for which funds have
been authorized, appropriated and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the area
within a community subject to a “special flood hazard” and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a SYSTEM typically includes dams,
reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood-modifying works are those
constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source (see FLOODING).
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The individual appointed to administer and enforce
the floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT. Any type of permit that is required in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter, prior to the commencement of
any development activity.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventative measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height.
   FLOOD ZONE. A geographical area shown on a flood hazard boundary map (FHBM)
or flood insurance rate map (FIRM) that reflects the severity or type of
flooding in the area, and applicable insurance rate.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for the purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for
the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than
the height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such
as wave action, obstructed bridge openings, debris and ice jams and the
hydrologic effects of urbanization in a watershed. The base flood elevation
(BFE) plus the freeboard establishes the flood protection elevation (FPE).
FREEBOARD shall be one foot.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A facility that cannot be used for its intended
purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water, such
as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo
or passengers, shipbuilding or ship repair facilities. The term does not
include long-term storage, manufacture, sales or service facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE (HAG). The highest natural elevation of the ground
surface prior to construction, adjacent to the proposed walls of a structure.
Refer to the FEMA elevation certificate for HAG related to building elevation
information.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. A structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of Interior) or preliminarily
determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or to a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a State Inventory of Historic Places and
determined as eligible by states with historic preservation programs which have
been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a Local Inventory of Historic Places and
determined as eligible by communities with historic preservation programs that
have been certified either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LETTER OF MAP CHANGE (LOMC). A general term used to refer to the several
types of revisions and amendments to FIRMs that can be accomplished by letter.
They include letter of map amendment (LOMA), letter of map revision (LOMR) and
letter of map revision based on fill (LOMR-F).
      (1)   CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR). A formal review and
comment as to whether a proposed flood protection project or other project
complies with the minimum NFIP requirements for such projects with respect to
delineation of special flood hazard areas. A CLOMR does not revise the
effective flood insurance rate map (FIRM) or flood insurance study (FIS). Upon
submission and approval of certified as-built documentation, a letter of map
revision (LOMR) may be issued by FEMA to revise the effective FIRM. Building
permits and/or flood development permits cannot be issued based on a CLOMR,
because a CLOMR does not change the NFIP map.
      (2)   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An official amendment, by letter,
to an effective National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) map. A LOMA establishes
a property’s or structure’s location in relation to the special flood hazard
area (SFHA). LOMAs are usually issued because a property or structure has been
inadvertently mapped as being in the floodplain but is actually on natural high
ground above the base flood elevation.
      (3)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). FEMA’s modification to an effective
flood insurance rate map (FIRM) or a flood boundary and floodway map (FBFM) or
both. LOMRs are generally based on the implementation of physical measures that
affect the hydrologic or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding source and
thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the
effective base flood elevations (BFEs) or the special flood hazard area (SFHA).
The LOMR officially revises the flood insurance rate map (FIRM) or flood
boundary and floodway map (FBFM), and sometimes the flood insurance study (FIS)
report, and when appropriate, includes a description of the modifications. The
LOMR is generally accompanied by an annotated copy of the affected portions of
the FIRM, FBFM or FIS report.
      (4)   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). FEMA’s modification
of the special flood hazard area (SFHA) shown on the flood insurance rate map
(FIRM) based on the placement of fill outside the existing regulatory floodway.
The LOMR-F does not change the FIRM, FBFM or FIS report.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed according to sound engineering practices, to contain, control or
divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). The lowest point of the ground level next to
the structure. Refer to the FEMA elevation certificate for LAG related to
building elevation information.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, used solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area other than a basement, is
not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided, that such enclosure is not
built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3 and this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, built
on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term MANUFACTURED HOME
does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, not including the land value and that of
any accessory structures or other improvements on the lot. MARKET VALUE may be
established by independent certified appraisal; replacement cost depreciated
for age of building and quality of construction (actual cash value); or
adjusted tax assessed values.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the national flood insurance program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on the city’s FIRM are referenced.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW). Describes a condition where there is a river, flow
or inundation of liquid mud down a hillside usually as a result of a dual
condition of loss of brush cover, and the subsequent accumulation of water on
the ground preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
MUDSLIDE (I.E., MUDFLOW) may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide
is in progress, and will be recognized as such by the Administrator only if the
mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage that occurs.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) AREA MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall
program of corrective and preventive measures for reducing mudslide (i.e.,
mudflow) damage, including, but not limited to, emergency preparedness plans,
mudslide control works and floodplain management regulations.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) PRONE AREA. An area with land surfaces and slopes
of unconsolidated material where the history, geology and climate indicate a
potential for mudflow.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The NFIP is a federal program
created by Congress to mitigate future flood losses nationwide through sound,
community-enforced building and zoning ordinances and to provide access to
affordable, federally backed flood insurance protection for property owners.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, a structure for which
the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of a
floodplain management regulation adopted by a community and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures. Any construction started after May
2, 1975, and before the effective start date of this chapter is subject to the
ordinance in effect at the time the permit was issued, provided the start of
construction was within 180 days of permit issuance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A place where the construction of
facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be
affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the
construction of streets and final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads)
is completed on or after the effective date of floodplain management
regulations adopted by a community May 2, 1975.
   POST-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the “start of
construction” occurred on or after the effective date of the initial flood
insurance rate map (FIRM).
   PRE-FIRM. Construction or other development for which the “start of
construction” occurred before September 3, 1980, the effective date of the
initial flood insurance rate map (FIRM).
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towed by a light duty
truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. See FLOODWAY.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state or local floodplain management regulations, or, if this
is not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that impacts
may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected development
from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of this chapter or
otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal financial
exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   REPETITIVE LOSS STRUCTURE. An NFIP-insured structure that has had at least
two paid flood losses of more than $1,000 each in any ten-year period since
1978.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). The land in the floodplain within a
community subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. For
purposes of these regulations, the term SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA is synonymous
in meaning with the phrase “area of special flood hazard.”
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement and means the date
the development permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent construction of
a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the stage
of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not the alteration affects the external dimensions of a building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank that is principally aboveground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of its market value before the damage occurred. See SUBSTANTIAL
IMPROVEMENT. For insurance purposes, SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE also means flood-
related damage sustained by a structure on two separate occasions during a ten-
year period for which the cost of repairs at the time of each such flood event,
on the average, equals or exceeds 25% of the market value of the structure
before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred “substantial
damage,” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not
include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications,
which have been identified by the local Code Enforcement Official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a “historic structure,” provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure,” and the alteration is approved by variance issued
pursuant to this chapter.
   TECHNICAL BULLETINS AND TECHNICAL FACT SHEETS. FEMA publications that
provide guidance concerning the building performance standards of the NFIP,
which are contained in 44 C.F.R. § 60.3. The bulletins and fact sheets are
intended for use primarily by state and local officials responsible for
interpreting and enforcing NFIP regulations and by members of the development
community, such as design professionals and builders. New bulletins, as well as
updates of existing bulletins, are issued periodically as needed. The bulletins
do not create regulations. Rather they provide specific guidance for complying
with the minimum requirements of existing NFIP regulations. It should be noted
that TECHNICAL BULLETINS AND TECHNICAL FACT SHEETS provide guidance on the
minimum requirements of the NFIP regulations. State or community requirements
that exceed those of the NFIP take precedence. Design professionals should
contact the community officials to determine whether more restrictive state or
local regulations apply to the building or site in question. All applicable
standards of the state or local building code must also be met for any building
in a flood hazard area.
   TEMPERATURE CONTROLLED. Having the temperature regulated by a heating and/or
cooling system, built-in or appliance.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by the governing body from a requirement of this
chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the finished construction elevation certificate,
other certifications or other evidence of compliance required in 44 C.F.R. §
60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4) or (e)(5) is presumed to be
in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or the North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of
1988 (or other specified datum), of floods of various magnitudes and
frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine areas.
   WATERCOURSE. For the purposes of this chapter only, a lake, river, creek,
stream, wash, channel or other topographic feature within a flood hazard area
in which water regularly flows or is known to experience frequent non-
anthropogenic flooding.
(Ord. 2875, passed 5-16-2011; Ord. 2923, passed 4-15-2013; Ord. 3207, passed 3-
4-2019)
§ 12-15-05 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lands to which this chapter applies. This chapter shall apply to all
special flood hazard areas within the jurisdiction of the city. Nothing in this
chapter is intended to allow uses or structures that are otherwise prohibited
by the city’s zoning ordinance.
   (B)   Basis for areas of special flood hazard. The special flood hazard
areas identified by the Federal Insurance Administrator in a scientific and
engineering report titled “Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Canyon County, Idaho
and Incorporated Areas,” dated June 7, 2019, with accompanying flood insurance
rate maps (FIRM) or digital flood insurance rate maps (DFIRM), and other
supporting data, are adopted by reference and declared a part of this chapter.
The FIS and the FIRM are on file at the office of the City Engineer at 621
Cleveland Boulevard in Caldwell, Idaho 83605.
   (C)   Establishment of floodplain development permit. A floodplain
development permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of this
chapter prior to the commencement of any development activities within special
flood hazard areas determined in accordance with the provisions of §
12-15-07(C).
   (D)   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended,
converted, altered or developed in any way without full compliance with the
terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
   (E)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This chapter shall not in any way
repeal, abrogate, impair or remove the necessity of compliance with any other
laws, ordinances, regulations, easements, covenants or deed restrictions and
the like. However, where this chapter and another conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes more stringent or greater restrictions shall control.
   (F)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this chapter
all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements; and
      (2)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   (G)   Warning and disclaimer of liability.
      (1)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is
considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and
engineering considerations. Larger floods can and will occur. Flood heights may
be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not imply that
land outside the special flood hazard areas or uses permitted within such areas
will be free from flooding or flood damages.
      (2)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the city or
by any officer or employee thereof for flood damages that result from reliance
on this chapter or an administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
   (H)   Penalties for violation. No structure or land shall hereafter be
located, extended, converted or altered unless in full compliance with the
terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations. Pursuant to the powers
granted by Idaho Code § 50-302, violation of the provisions of this chapter or
failure to comply with any of its requirements, including violation of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants of variance or
special exceptions, shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates
this chapter or fails to comply with any of its requirements may, upon
conviction thereof, be fined not more than $100. Each day the violation
continues shall constitute a new and separate violation. Nothing herein
contained shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful actions as is
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2875, passed 5-16-2011; Ord. 3207, passed 3-4-2019)
§ 12-15-07 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Designation of Floodplain Administrator. The City Engineer or his or
her designee, hereinafter referred to as the “Floodplain Administrator,” is
hereby appointed to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator. The
Floodplain Administrator shall perform, but not be limited to, the following
duties:
      (1)   Review all floodplain development applications and issue permits
for all proposed development within special flood hazard areas to assure that
the requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   Review all proposed development within special flood hazard areas
to assure that all necessary local, state and federal permits have been
received, including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments
of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1344;
      (3)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Department of Water
Resources State Coordinator for the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP)
prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit evidence of
such notification to the Federal Insurance Administrator (FIA) (this is the
LOMC procedure);
      (4)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained (this is a hydraulic and
hydrology analysis);
      (5)   Prevent encroachments into floodways unless the certification and
flood hazard reduction provisions of division (E) below are met;
      (6)   Obtain and maintain actual elevation. A person contesting the
location of the floodplain elevation boundary shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to appeal the interpretation, as provided in this chapter;
      (7)   Review plans to verify public utilities are constructed in
accordance with the provisions of §
12-15-09(A)(5) through (A)(7);
      (8)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
and maintain certifications from a registered professional engineer or
architect in accordance with the provisions of division (C)(3) below and §
12-15-09(B)(2);
      (9)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of
boundaries of the special flood hazard areas, and floodways (for example, where
there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person contesting the
location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
interpretation as provided in this chapter;
      (10)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data has not been provided in
accordance with the provisions of §
12-15-05(B), obtain, review and reasonably utilize any BFE data, along with
floodway data available from a federal, state or other source, including data
developed pursuant to §
12-15-09(C)(2), in order to administer the provisions of this chapter;
      (11)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is provided but no floodway
data has been provided in accordance with the provisions of §
12-15-05(B), require that no new construction, substantial improvements or
other development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zones A1-30 and AE
on the community’s FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect
of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any point within the community (this is a
hydraulic and hydrology analysis);
      (12)   Permanently maintain all records that pertain to the
administration of this chapter and make these records available for public
inspection, recognizing that such information may be subject to the Privacy Act
of 1974, as amended, being 5 U.S.C. § 552a;
      (13)   Make on-site inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant
to a floodplain development permit progresses, the Floodplain Administrator
shall make as many inspections of the work as may be necessary to ensure that
the work is being done according to the provisions of this chapter and the
terms of the permit. In exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator has
a right, upon presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises
within the jurisdiction of the community at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
      (14)   Notify the Department of Building Safety to issue stop-work orders
as required. Whenever a building or part thereof is being constructed,
reconstructed, altered or repaired in violation of this chapter, the Floodplain
Administrator may notify the Building Department to order the work to be
immediately stopped. The stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to
the person doing or in charge of the work. The stop-work order shall state the
specific work to be stopped, the specific reason(s) for the stoppage and the
condition(s) under which the work may be resumed. Violation of a stop-work
order shall constitute a violation of this chapter and shall be punishable as a
violation of this chapter under §
12-15-05(H);
      (15)   Revoke floodplain development permits as required. The Floodplain
Administrator may revoke and require the return of the floodplain development
permit by notifying the permit holder in writing stating the reason(s) for the
revocation. Permits shall be revoked for any substantial departure from the
approved application, plans and specifications; for refusal or failure to
comply with the requirements of state or local laws; or for false statements or
misrepresentations made in securing the permit. Any floodplain development
permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or local law may
also be revoked;
      (16)   Make periodic inspections throughout the special flood hazard
areas within the jurisdiction of the community. The Floodplain Administrator
and each member of his or her Inspections Department shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the Department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action;
      (17)   Follow through with corrective procedures of division (D) below;
      (18)   Review, provide input and make recommendations for variance
requests;
      (19)   Maintain a current map repository to include, but not be limited
to, the FIS Report, FIRM and other official flood maps, and studies adopted in
accordance with the provisions of §
12-15-05(B) of this chapter, including any revisions thereto, including letters
of map change, issued by FEMA. Notify the NFIP State Coordinator and FEMA of
the community’s mapping needs;
      (20)   Coordinate revisions to FIS reports and FIRMs, including letters
of map revision based on fill (LOMR-Fs) and letters of map revision (LOMRs);
      (21)   A community’s base flood elevations may increase or decrease
resulting from physical changes affecting flooding conditions. As soon as
practicable, but not later than six months after the date such information
becomes available, a community shall notify the Federal Insurance Administrator
(FIA) of the changes by submitting technical or scientific data in accordance
with this chapter. Such a submission is necessary so that upon confirmation of
those physical changes affecting flooding conditions, risk premium rates and
floodplain management requirements will be based upon current data; and
      (22)   Upon occurrence, notify the Federal Insurance Administrator (FIA)
in writing whenever the boundaries of the community have been modified by
annexation or the community has otherwise assumed or no longer has authority to
adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations for a particular area. In
order that all FHBMs and FIRMs accurately represent the community’s boundaries,
include within such notification a copy of a map of the community suitable for
reproduction, clearly delineating the new corporate limits or new area for
which the community has assumed or relinquished floodplain management
regulatory authority.
   (C)   Floodplain development application, permit and certification
requirements.
      (1)   Application requirements. Application for a floodplain development
permit shall be made to the Floodplain Administrator prior to any development
activities located within special flood hazard areas. All applicable fields on
the form shall be filled out completely before submitting it to the Floodplain
Administrator to apply for a floodplain development permit.
      (2)   Permit requirements. The floodplain development permit shall, as
applicable, include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   A complete description of all the development to be permitted
under the floodplain development permit (i.e., house, garage, pool, septic,
solid wall or barrier, cabana, pole barn, chicken coop, pier, bridge, mining,
dredging, filling, rip-rap, dock, grading, paving, excavation or drilling
operation or storage of equipment or material and the like);
         (b)   The special flood hazard area determination for the proposed
development in accordance with available data specified in §
12-15-05(B);
         (c)   The flood protection elevation required for the lowest floor and
all attendant utilities;
         (d)   The flood protection elevation required for the protection of
all utility equipment and machinery;
         (e)   All certification submittal requirements with timelines;
         (f)   A statement that no fill material or other development shall
encroach into the floodway of any watercourse, as applicable;
         (g)   The flood openings requirements;
         (h)   Floodplain development permits shall expire if construction does
not commence (“start of construction”) within 180 days of permit issuance. If
the associated building permit is allowed to expire, be revoked or abandoned,
the respective floodplain development permit is also of no further force or
effect. Renewal or reinstatement of the permit with the associated building
permit requires resubmittal or, at a minimum, written approval from the
Floodplain Administrator;
         (i)   Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor are usable solely
for parking of vehicles, building access or storage; and
         (j)   All materials below BFE must be flood-resistant materials.
      (3)   Certification requirements.
         (a)   Elevation certificates.
            1.   A construction drawings elevation certificate (FEMA Form 86-0-
33) is required prior to the actual start of any new construction. It shall be
the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of the elevation of the lowest floor, in relation to mean sea
level. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder prior to the beginning of construction. Failure to submit the
certification or failure to make required corrections shall be cause to deny a
floodplain development permit.
            2.   A building under construction elevation certificate (FEMA Form
86-0-33) may be required by the Floodplain Administrator after the lowest floor
is established. Within seven calendar days of establishment of the lowest floor
elevation, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the
Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation of the lowest floor,
in relation to mean sea level. Any work done within the seven-day calendar
period and prior to submission of the certification shall be at the permit
holder’s risk. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate data
submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to further work being permitted to proceed.
Failure to submit the certification or failure to make required corrections
shall be cause to issue a stop-work order for the project.
            3.   a.   A final as-built finished construction elevation
certificate (FEMA Form 86-0-33) is required after construction is completed and
prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy issuance. It shall be the duty of
the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a certification of
final as-built construction of the elevation of the lowest floor and all
attendant utilities. The Floodplain Administrator shall review the certificate
data submitted. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the
permit holder immediately and prior to certificate of compliance/occupancy
issuance. In some instances, another certification may be required to certify
corrected as-built construction. Failure to submit the certification or failure
to make required corrections shall be cause to withhold the issuance of a
certificate of compliance/occupancy.
               b.   The finished construction elevation certificate certifier
shall provide at least three photographs showing the front, side and rear of
the building taken within 90 days from the date of certification. The
photographs must be taken with views confirming the building description and
diagram number provided in section A. To the extent possible, these photographs
should show the entire building including foundation. If the building has
split-level or multi-level areas, provide at least two additional photographs
showing side views of the building. In addition, when applicable, provide a
photograph of the foundation showing a representative example of the flood
openings or vents. All photographs must be in color and measure at least three
inches by three inches. Digital photographs are acceptable.
         (b)   Floodproofing certificate. If nonresidential floodproofing is
used to meet the flood protection elevation requirements, design plans, with
supporting data, an operational plan and an inspection and maintenance plan are
required prior to the actual start of any new construction. It shall be the
duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain Administrator a
certification of the floodproofed design elevation of the lowest floor and all
attendant utilities, in relation to mean sea level. Floodproofing certification
shall be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a professional engineer
or architect and certified by same. The Floodplain Administrator shall review
the certificate data, the operational plan and the inspection and maintenance
plan. Deficiencies detected by such review shall be corrected by the applicant
prior to permit approval. Failure to submit the certification or failure to
make required corrections shall be cause to deny a floodplain development
permit. Prior to request for a certificate of compliance/occupancy, a
floodproofing certificate (FEMA Form 086-0-34) shall be provided to the
Floodplain Administrator for review and approval.
         (c)   Engineered foundation certification. If a manufactured home is
placed within Zone A, AE, AH, AO or A1-30, and the elevation of the chassis is
more than 36 inches in height above grade, an engineered foundation
certification is required in accordance with the provisions of §
12-15-09(B)(3)(b).
         (d)   Altering or relocating watercourse. If a watercourse within a
special flood hazard area is to be altered or relocated, the following shall
all be submitted by the permit applicant prior to issuance of a floodplain
development permit:
            1.   A description of the extent of watercourse alteration or
relocation;
            2.   A professional engineer’s certified report on the effects of
the proposed project on the flood-carrying capacity of the watercourse and the
effects to properties located both upstream and downstream; and
            3.   A map showing the location of the proposed watercourse
alteration or relocation.
         (e)   Certification exemptions. The following structures are exempt
from the elevation/floodproofing certification requirements specified in
divisions (C)(3)(a) and (C)(3)(b) above.
            1.   Recreational vehicles meeting requirements of §
12-15-09(B)(5)(a);
            2.   Temporary structures meeting requirements of §
12-15-09(B)(6); and
            3.   Accessory structures less than 200 square feet meeting
requirements of §
12-15-09(B)(7).
      (4)   Determinations for existing buildings and structures. For
applications for building permits to improve buildings and structures,
including alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of
occupancy, additions, rehabilitations, renovations, improvements, repairs of
damage and any other improvement of or work on such buildings and structures,
the Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with the Building Official,
shall:
         (a)   Estimate the market value, or if reasonably accessible means of
determining value cannot be obtained, require the applicant to obtain an
appraisal of the market value, prepared by a qualified independent appraiser,
of the building or structure before the start of construction of the proposed
work. In the case of repair, the market value of the building or structure
shall be the market value before the damage occurred and before any repairs are
made;
         (b)   Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair
a damaged building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of
improvements and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or
structure;
         (c)   Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage; and
         (d)   Notify the applicant if it is determined that the work
constitutes substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage and that
compliance with the flood-resistant construction requirements of the adopted
State Building Code and this chapter is required.
   (D)   Corrective procedures.
      (1)   Violations to be corrected. When the Floodplain Administrator finds
violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her duty to
notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The owner or
occupant shall remedy each of the violations of law cited in such notification.
      (2)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner
of a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give the owner written notice, by certified or
registered mail to the owner’s last known address or by personal service,
stating:
         (a)   Violation. The building or property is in violation of the
floodplain management regulations; and
         (b)   Order to take corrective action. The Floodplain Administrator
may issue an order to alter, vacate or demolish the building; or to remove fill
as applicable. Said order shall specify the period of time in which the
corrective action must be taken. In the absence of corrective action within a
specified time, the city may move to abate or correct the problem at the
owner’s expense, or pursue other such remedies authorized under the laws of the
state, and this code, up to and including removal from the National Flood
Insurance Program pursuant to § 1316 of the National Flood Insurance Act, being
42 U.S.C. §§ 4001 et seq. In instances where such violation poses an imminent
threat to public health, safety and welfare, the city may take immediate
action.
      (3)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective
action may appeal the order to the City Council by giving notice of appeal in
writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the Clerk within ten days following
issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal, the order of the
Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local governing body shall hear an
appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and affirm or revoke the
order.
      (4)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or
property fails to comply with an order to take corrective action within the
time specified by said order, for which no appeal has been made or fails to
comply with an order of the City Council following an appeal, said failure
shall constitute a violation of this chapter and shall be punishable as a
violation of this chapter under §
12-15-05(H).
   (E)   Variance procedures.
      (1)   The City Council, hereinafter referred to as the “Appeal Board,”
shall hear and decide requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
      (2)   Variances may be issued for:
         (a)   The repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon the
determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and that the variance
is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the
structure;
         (b)   Functionally dependent uses, if determined to meet the
definition as stated in §
12-15-03; provided, that provisions of divisions (E)(8)(b), (E)(8)(c) and (E)
(8)(d)3. below have been satisfied, and such facilities are protected by
methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no
additional threats to public safety; or
         (c)   Any other type of development, provided it meets the
requirements of this section.
      (3)   In passing upon variances, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
         (a)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         (b)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         (c)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         (d)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         (e)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location as
defined under §
12-15-03 as a functionally dependent use, where applicable;
         (f)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to
flooding or erosion damage, for the proposed use;
         (g)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         (h)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
         (i)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         (j)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
         (k)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems and streets and
bridges.
      (4)   The applicant shall include a written report addressing each of the
factors in divisions (E)(3)(a) through (E)(3)(k) above with their application
for a variance.
      (5)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of
this chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes and objectives of this
chapter.
      (6)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE) and the
elevation to which the structure is to be built and that such construction
below the BFE increases risks to life and property, and that the issuance of a
variance to construct a structure below the BFE will result in increased
premium rates for flood insurance up to $25 per $100 of insurance coverage.
Such notification shall be maintained with a record of all variance actions,
including justification for their issuance.
      (7)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and the state upon request.
      (8)   Conditions for variances are as follows.
         (a)   Variances shall not be issued when the variance will make the
structure in violation of other federal, state or local laws, regulations or
ordinances.
         (b)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if
the variance would result in any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge.
         (c)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
         (d)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
            1.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
            2.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship; and
            3.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (9)   A variance may be issued for solid waste disposal facilities or
sites, hazardous waste management facilities, salvage yards and chemical
storage facilities that are located in special flood hazard areas provided that
all of the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The use serves a critical need in the community;
         (b)   No feasible location exists for the use outside the special
flood hazard area;
         (c)   The lowest floor of any structure is elevated or floodproofed to
at least the flood protection elevation; and
         (d)   The use complies with all other applicable federal, state and
local laws.
      (10)   The city will notify the State NFIP Coordinator of the State
Department of Water Resources of applications for a variance at least 30
calendar days prior to granting the variance.
      (11)   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may
appeal such decision to the court, as provided in Idaho Code §
(Ord. 3207, passed 3-4-2019)
§ 12-15-09 PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   (A)   General standards. In all special flood hazard areas, the following
provisions are required.
      (1)   All new construction, substantial improvements and development
shall be designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse and lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
      (2)   All new construction, substantial improvements and development
shall be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood
damage in accordance with the Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant
Materials Requirements and available from the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and applicable state building codes.
      (3)   All new construction, substantial improvements and development
shall be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damages.
      (4)   All new and replacement electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing,
air conditioning equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/
or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding to the flood protection elevation.
These include, but are not limited to, HVAC equipment, water softener units,
bath/kitchen fixtures, ductwork, electric/gas meter panels/boxes, utility/cable
boxes, hot water heaters and electric outlets/switches.
      (5)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system.
      (6)   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into floodwaters.
      (7)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      (8)   A fully enclosed area, of new construction and substantially
improved structures, which is below the lowest floor used solely for parking,
access and storage shall:
         (a)   Be constructed entirely of flood-resistant materials at least to
the flood protection elevation; and
         (b)   Include, in Zones A, AE, AH, AO and A1-30, flood openings to
automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on walls by allowing for the
entry and exit of floodwaters. To meet this requirement, the openings must
either be certified by a professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed
the following minimum design criteria:
            1.   A minimum of two flood openings on different sides of each
enclosed area subject to flooding;
            2.   The total net area of all flood openings must be at least one
square inch for each square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding;
            3.   If a building has more than one enclosed area, each enclosed
area must have flood openings to allow floodwaters to automatically enter and
exit;
            4.   The bottom of all required flood openings shall be no higher
than one foot above the interior or exterior adjacent grade;
            5.   Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions; and
            6.   Enclosures made of flexible skirting are not considered
enclosures for regulatory purposes and, therefore, do not require flood
openings. Masonry or flood-resistant wood underpinning, regardless of
structural status, is considered an enclosure and requires flood openings as
outlined above.
      (9)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reconstruction or
replacement of a building or structure existing on the effective date of this
chapter and located totally or partially within the floodway, or stream
setback, provided there is no additional encroachment below the flood
protection elevation in the floodway, or stream setback, and provided that such
repair, reconstruction or replacement meets all of the other requirements of
this chapter.
      (10)   New solid waste disposal facilities and sites, hazardous waste
management facilities, salvage yards and chemical storage facilities shall not
be permitted, except by variance as specified in §
12-15-07(E)(9). A structure or tank for chemical or fuel storage incidental to
an allowed use or to the operation of a water treatment plant or wastewater
treatment facility may be located in a special flood hazard area only if the
structure or tank is either elevated or floodproofed to at least the flood
protection elevation and certified in accordance with the provisions of §
12-15-07(C)(3).
      (11)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall be
consistent with the need to minimize flood damage and determined to be
reasonably safe from flooding.
      (12)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
systems located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
      (13)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
      (14)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals shall
have received all necessary permits from those governmental agencies for which
approval is required by federal or state law, including § 404 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1344.
      (15)   All subdivision proposals and other development proposals greater
than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is the lesser, shall include within such
proposals base flood elevation data.
      (16)   When a structure is partially located in a special flood hazard
area, the entire structure shall meet the requirements for new construction and
substantial improvements.
      (17)   When a structure is located in multiple flood hazard zones or in a
flood hazard risk zone with multiple base flood elevations, the provisions for
the more restrictive flood hazard risk zone and the highest base flood
elevation (BFE) shall apply.
   (B)   Specific standards. In all special flood hazard areas where base flood
elevation (BFE) data has been provided, as set forth in §
12-15-05(B) or division (D) below, the following provisions, in addition to the
provisions of division (A) above, are required.
      (1)   Residential construction. New construction, substantial
improvements and development of any residential structure (including
manufactured homes) shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated
no lower than the flood protection elevation, as defined in §
12-15-03.
      (2)   Nonresidential construction. New construction, substantial
improvements and development of any commercial, industrial or other
nonresidential structure shall have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated no lower than the flood protection elevation, as defined in §
12-15-03. Structures located in Zones A, AE, AH, AO and A1-30 may be
floodproofed to the flood protection elevation in lieu of elevation, provided
that all areas of the structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, below the flood protection elevation are watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using structural components
having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the
effect of buoyancy. For AH and AO Zones, the floodproofing elevation shall be
in accordance with division (F)(2) below. A registered professional engineer or
architect shall certify that the floodproofing standards of this division (B)
(2) are satisfied. Such certification shall be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator as set forth in §
12-15-07(C)(3).
      (3)   Manufactured homes.
         (a)   New and replacement manufactured homes shall be elevated so that
the lowest floor of the manufactured home is no lower than the flood protection
elevation, as defined in §
12-15-03.
         (b)   Manufactured homes shall be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement, either
by certified engineered foundation system, or in accordance with the most
current edition of the State Division of Building Safety’s “Idaho Manufactured
Home Installation Standard” in accordance with Idaho Code § 44-2201(2).
Additionally, when the elevation would be met by an elevation of the chassis 36
inches or less above the grade at the site, the chassis shall be supported by
reinforced piers or engineered foundation. When the elevation of the chassis is
above 36 inches in height, an engineering certification is required.
         (c)   All enclosures or skirting below the lowest floor shall meet the
requirements of divisions (A)(8)(a) through (A)(8)(b) above.
         (d)   An evacuation plan is strongly encouraged to be developed for
evacuation of all residents of all new, substantially improved or substantially
damaged manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within flood-prone
areas.
      (4)   Additions/improvements.
         (a)   Additions and/or improvements to pre-FIRM structures. When the
addition and/or improvements in combination with any interior modifications to
the existing structure are:
            1.   Not a “substantial improvement,” the addition and/or
improvements must be designed to minimize flood damages and must not be any
more nonconforming than the existing structure; or
            2.   A “substantial improvement,” both the existing structure and
the addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
         (b)   Additions to noncompliant post-FIRM structures that are a
substantial improvement with no modifications to the existing structure other
than a standard door in the common wall shall require only the addition to
comply with the standards for new construction; and
         (c)   Additions and/or improvements to noncompliant post-FIRM
structures when the addition and/or improvements in combination with any
interior modifications to the existing structure are:
            1.   Not a substantial improvement, the addition and/or
improvements only must comply with the standards for new construction; or
            2.   A substantial improvement, both the existing structure and the
addition and/or improvements must comply with the standards for new
construction.
      (5)   Recreational vehicles. Recreational vehicles shall be either:
         (a)   Temporary placement. Be on-site for fewer than 180 consecutive
days and be fully licensed and ready for highway use (a recreational vehicle is
ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to
the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and has no permanently
attached additions); or
         (b)   Permanent placement. Recreational vehicles that do not meet the
limitations of temporary placement shall meet all the requirements for new
construction, as set forth in division (A) above.
      (6)   Temporary nonresidential structures. Prior to the issuance of a
floodplain development permit for a temporary structure, the applicant must
submit to the Floodplain Administrator a plan for the removal of such structure
(s) in the event of a flash flood or other type of flood warning notification.
The following information shall be submitted in writing to the Floodplain
Administrator for review and written approval:
         (a)   A specified time period for which the temporary use will be
permitted. Time specified may not exceed six months, renewable up to one year;
         (b)   The name, address and phone number of the individual responsible
for the removal of the temporary structure;
         (c)   The time frame prior to the event at which a structure will be
removed (i.e., immediately upon flood warning notification);
         (d)   A copy of the contract or other suitable instrument with the
entity responsible for physical removal of the structure;
         (e)   Designation, accompanied by documentation, of a location outside
the special flood hazard area, to which the temporary structure will be moved;
and
         (f)   Temporary structures in the floodway must provide a hydraulic
and hydrology analysis along with a no-rise certification.
      (7)   Accessory structures (appurtenant structures).
         (a)   When accessory structures (sheds, detached garages and the like)
used solely for parking and storage are to be placed within a special flood
hazard area, elevation certificate or floodproofing certificate is required in
accordance with §
12-15-07(C)(3), and the following criteria shall be met:
            1.   Accessory structures shall not be used for human habitation
(including working, sleeping, living, cooking or restroom areas);
            2.   Accessory structures shall not be temperature-controlled;
            3.   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood
damage potential;
            4.   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters;
            5.   Accessory structures shall be firmly anchored in accordance
with the provisions of division (A)(1) above;
            6.   All utility equipment and machinery, such as electrical, shall
be installed in accordance with the provisions of division (A)(4) above;
            7.   Flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization of
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below flood protection elevation in
conformance with the provisions of division (A)(8) above; and
            8.   Accessory structures not used solely for parking, access and
storage must be elevated per divisions (B)(1) through (B)(2) above.
         (b)   An accessory structure with a footprint less than 200 square
feet and is a minimal investment of $7,500 or less and satisfies the criteria
outlined in divisions (B)(7)(a) above is not required to provide the elevation
certificate per division (B)(2) above.
      (8)   Tanks. When gas and liquid storage tanks are to be placed within a
special flood hazard area, the following criteria shall be met:
         (a)   Underground tanks in flood hazard areas shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads during conditions of the base flood, including the effects of
buoyancy (assuming the tank is empty);
         (b)   Elevated above-ground tanks in flood hazard areas shall be
attached to and elevated to or above the design flood elevation on a supporting
structure that is designed to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement
during conditions of the base flood. Tank-supporting structures shall meet the
foundation requirements of the applicable flood hazard area;
         (c)   Not elevated above-ground tanks may be permitted in flood hazard
areas provided the tanks are anchored or otherwise designed and constructed to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads during conditions of the design flood, including the effects
of buoyancy assuming the tank is empty and the effects of flood-borne debris;
and
         (d)   Tank inlets, fill openings, outlets and vents shall be:
            1.   At or above the flood protection elevation or fitted with
covers designed to prevent the inflow of floodwater or outflow of the contents
of the tanks during conditions of the base flood; and
            2.   Anchored to prevent lateral movement resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy, during
conditions of the base flood.
      (9)   Construction of below-grade crawlspace.
         (a)   The interior grade of a below-grade crawlspace must not be more
than two feet below the exterior lowest adjacent grade (LAG).
         (b)   The height of the below-grade crawlspace, measured from the
interior grade of the crawlspace to the top of the crawlspace foundation wall,
must not exceed four feet at any point.
         (c)   There must be an adequate drainage system that removes
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawlspace. The enclosed area should
be drained within a reasonable time after a flood event.
         (d)   The velocity of floodwaters at the site should not exceed five
feet per second for any crawlspace.
         (e)   See FEMA Technical Bulletin 11 for further information.
Buildings that have below-grade crawlspaces will have higher flood insurance
premiums than buildings that have the preferred crawlspace construction, with
the interior elevation of the crawlspace soil at or above the base flood
elevation (BFE).
      (10)   Other development in regulated floodways.
         (a)   Fences that have the potential to block the passage of
floodwaters in regulated floodways shall meet the limitations of division (E)
below.
         (b)   Retaining walls, solid walls, sidewalks and driveways that
involve the placement of fill in regulated floodways shall meet the limitations
of division (E) below.
         (c)   Roads and watercourse crossings, including roads, bridges,
culverts, low-water crossings and similar means for vehicles or pedestrians to
travel from one side of a watercourse to the other side, which propose the
addition of fill which may encroach into regulated floodways, shall meet the
limitations of division (E) below.
         (d)   Permanently installed infrastructure utilized for drilling
water, oil and/or gas wells, including fuel storage tanks, and any appurtenant
equipment at the site that encroach into regulated floodways shall meet the
limitations of division (E) below.
         (e)   Docks, piers, boat ramps, marinas, moorings, decks, docking
facilities, port facilities, shipbuilding and ship repair facilities with
potential to obstruct flow and encroach into regulated floodways shall meet the
limitations of division (E) below.
   (C)   Standards for floodplains without established base flood elevations.
Within the special flood hazard areas designated as Zone A (also known as
unnumbered A Zones) and established in §
12-15-05(B), where no base flood elevation (BFE) data has been provided by
FEMA, the following provisions, in addition to the provisions of division (A)
above, shall apply: the BFE used in determining the flood protection elevation
(FPE) shall be determined based on the following criteria.
      (1)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is available from other
sources, all new construction and substantial improvements within such areas
shall also comply with all applicable provisions of this chapter and shall be
elevated or floodproofed in accordance with standards in divisions (A) and (B)
above.
      (2)   When floodway data is available from a federal, state or other
source, all new construction and substantial improvements within floodway areas
shall also comply with the requirements of divisions (B) and (E) of this
section.
      (3)   Require that all new subdivision proposals and other proposed
developments (including proposals for manufactured home parks and subdivisions)
greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is the lesser, include within
such proposals base flood elevation data. Such base flood elevation (BFE) data
shall be adopted by reference in accordance with §
12-15-05(B) and utilized in implementing this chapter. See FEMA 480 and/or FEMA
265 for further information.
      (4)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a
federal, state or other source as outlined above, the lowest floor shall be
elevated or floodproofed (nonresidential) to two feet above the highest
adjacent grade (HAG) at the building site or to the flood protection elevation
(FPE) whichever is higher, as defined in §
12-15-03. All other applicable provisions of division (B) above shall also
apply.
   (D)   Standards for riverine floodplains with base flood elevations but
without established floodways. Along rivers and streams where base flood
elevation (BFE) data is provided by FEMA or is available from another source,
but floodways are not identified for a special flood hazard area on the FIRM or
in the FIS report, the following requirements shall apply to all development
within such areas:
      (1)   Standards of divisions (A) and (B) above; and
      (2)   Until a regulatory floodway is designated, no encroachments,
including fill, new construction, substantial improvements or other development
shall be permitted unless certification with supporting technical data by a
registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood at any point within the community.
   (E)   Standards for floodways. Areas designated as floodways located within
the special flood hazard areas established in §
12-15-05(B). The following provisions, in addition to standards outlined in
divisions (A) and (B) above, shall apply to all development within such areas.
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other developments shall be permitted unless:
         (a)   It is demonstrated that the proposed encroachment would not
result in any increase in the flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood, based on hydrologic and hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with
standard engineering practice and presented to the Floodplain Administrator
prior to issuance of floodplain development permit (this is a no-rise analysis
and certification); or
         (b)   A conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) has been approved
by FEMA. A letter of map revision (LOMR) must also be obtained within six
months of completion of the proposed encroachment.
      (2)   If division (E)(1) above is satisfied, all development shall comply
with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Manufactured homes may be permitted provided the following
provisions are met:
         (a)   The anchoring and the elevation standards of division (B)(3)
above; and
         (b)   The encroachment standards of division (E)(1) above.
   (F)   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (Zone AO, AH, AR/AO or AR/AH).
Areas designated as shallow flooding areas have special flood hazards
associated with base flood depths of one foot to three feet where a clearly
defined channel does not exist and where the path of flooding is unpredictable
and indeterminate. In addition to divisions (A) and (B) above, all new
construction and substantial improvements shall meet the following
requirements.
      (1)   The lowest floor shall be elevated at least as high as the depth
number specified on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM), in feet, plus a
freeboard of one foot, above the highest adjacent grade; or at least two feet
above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified.
      (2)   Nonresidential structures may, in lieu of elevation, be
floodproofed to the same level as required in division (F)(1) above so that the
structure, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, below that
level shall be watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage
of water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Certification is
required in accordance with §
12-15-07(B)(2) and (C)(3).
      (3)   Accessory structure (appurtenant structure) (sheds, detached
garages and the like):
         (a)   Used solely for parking, access and storage:
            1.   Shall have the lowest floor elevated at least as high as the
depth number specified on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM); or at least two
feet above the highest adjacent grade if no depth number is specified; or
            2.   Shall have flood openings to facilitate automatic equalization
of hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided below flood protection elevation
in conformance with the provisions of division (A)(8) above.
         (b)   Not used solely for parking, access and storage: shall be
elevated per divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above.
      (4)   Adequate drainage paths shall be provided around structures on
slopes to guide floodwaters around and away from proposed structures.
(Ord. 3207, passed 3-4-2019)
§ 12-15-11 LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing flood damage
prevention ordinance. This chapter, in part, comes forward by re-enactment of
some of the provisions of the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance enacted May 2,
1975, as amended, and it is not the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact
and continue to enforce without interruption of such existing provisions, so
that all rights and liabilities that have accrued thereunder are reserved and
may be enforced. The enactment of this chapter shall not affect any action,
suit or proceeding instituted or pending. All provisions of the Flood Damage
Prevention Ordinance of the City of Caldwell enacted on May 2, 1975, as
amended, which are not reenacted herein are repealed.
   (B)   Effect upon outstanding floodplain development permits. Nothing herein
contained shall require any change in the plans, construction, size or
designated use of any development or any part thereof for which a floodplain
development permit has been granted by the Floodplain Administrator or his or
her authorized agents before the time of passage of this chapter. Provided,
however, that when construction is not begun under such outstanding permit
within a period of 180 days subsequent to the date of issuance of the
outstanding permit, construction or use shall be in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 3207, passed 3-4-2019)
CHAPTER 17: PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY IMPROVEMENTS
Section
   
12-17-01   Legislative purpose
   
12-17-02   Minimum improvements required
   
12-17-03   Rules and regulations
   
12-17-04   Deferral standards
   
12-17-05   Right-of-way permits
   
12-17-06   Financial guarantee requirements
   
12-17-07   Nuisance
§ 12-17-01 LEGISLATIVE PURPOSE.
   The City Council finds that the improvement of previously unimproved real
properties increases pedestrian and vehicular traffic to and from said
properties, necessitates a provision for the delivery of water and disposal of
sanitary sewage, necessitates the provision for the control of stormwater,
surface water and other drainage to ensure the orderly flow of surface waters
for the protection of adjoining properties and the protection of roads and
streets servicing said property; and therefore it is hereby found to be in the
best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city to
require certain minimum road improvements and right-of-way dedication, the
installation of curbs, gutters and sidewalks, and to require a connection to
the city sewer and water systems (when available) and to facilitate ready
connection to city services (when not presently available) as a condition
precedent to obtaining a building permit and in this regard to regulate the
placement of underground utilities.
(Ord. 2794, passed 7-20-2009)
§ 12-17-02 MINIMUM IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful and there shall be no development and/or construction
and/or special use permit upon any land located adjacent to or adjoining
unimproved, partially improved or master planned public rights-of-way, nor
shall there be issued a building permit to any person who seeks development or
construction upon said lands unless the owner and/or the developer of such land
constructs minimum improvements upon public rights-of-way located adjacent to
or adjoining such land as are specified and provided for in the rules and
regulations for minimum construction requirements provided herein.
   (A)   This section does not apply to any residential premises having an
existing dwelling of more than 600 square feet of floor area and that has been
inhabited at any time within the 12 months prior to application date of the
subject building permit, nor does this section apply to any commercial and/or
industrial premises wherein there is proposed construction development which is
either an enlargement or an extension of floor area of less than 40% of an
existing structure and results in less than 5,000 square feet of additional
floor area.
   (B)   Any owner/developer claiming an exemption pursuant to division (A)
above must file an application with the City Engineer for an exemption together
with sufficient proof to establish the owner/developer right to the exemption.
   (C)   This section does not apply to any development which qualifies as a
subdivision, as that term is defined in
Title 11, Chapter 1 of this code.
   (D)   The rules, regulations and requirements of this chapter do apply to
all development of property resulting from simple lot splits, as that term is
defined in
Title 11, Chapter 1 of this code.
(Ord. 2794, passed 7-20-2009; Ord. 3347, passed 5-17-2021)
§ 12-17-03 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Rules and regulations for minimum construction requirements and right-of-way
widths are required by this chapter as follows.
   (A)   Minimum right-of-way widths for each classification of street shall be
as required under the city’s subdivision ordinance (
Title 11 of this code). At the discretion of the City Engineer, the right-of-
way required for dedication may be reduced to half minimum right-of-way width,
on the side of centerline for which the building permit is being applied, minus
existing right-of-way, and provided sufficient right-of-way exists on the
opposite side of centerline to construct half of the design street section with
an asphalt mat meeting that requirement but being not less than 24 feet in
width.
   (B)   Improvements within a right-of-way or site adjacent master planned
right-of-way shall be constructed in compliance with the current city
supplemental specifications to the state standards for public works
construction and applicable sewer, water, trails/pathways and transportation
master plans (detached single-family residential may not be required to comply
with sewer and water master plans if waived by the City Engineer).
   (C)   Sidewalk, curb and gutter and streetlights shall be provided on the
street frontage on the side of centerline for which the building permit is
being applied, and shall be constructed in compliance with the current city
supplemental specifications to the state standards for public works
construction.
   (D)   Building permits shall only be issued for parcels or lots conforming
to Titles
10 and
11 of this code.
   (E)   Structures being constructed pursuant to a building permit shall be
connected to public sewer and/or water in conformance with the rules for such
connections as prescribed in
Title 4 of this code. Ready connections to said utilities shall be constructed
in instances where public sewer and/or water are not available at the time a
building permit is issued.
   (F)   Structures being constructed pursuant to a building permit shall be
served by a storm disposal system designed and constructed in conformance with
the current city “Stormwater Management Manual.”
(Ord. 2794, passed 7-20-2009; Ord. 3347, passed 5-17-2021)
§ 12-17-04 DEFERRAL STANDARDS.
   The City Council may, upon recommendation from the City Engineer, defer the
requirement for sidewalk, curb and gutter, and/or street construction for an
unspecified period of time providing all of the following conditions are met:
   (A)   The property is not located on an existing arterial street;
   (B)   There is no paved street and/or curb and gutter located within 300
feet of the building footprint’s closest edge projected perpendicular to the
right-of-way line. Cases may be escalated by the City Engineer to the City
Council for consideration in instances where the City Engineer deems it
commendable to allow deferral for businesses or residences subject to this
section closer to nonadjacent curb and gutter or pavement improvements than 300
feet, provided the City Engineer finds, on a case-by-case basis, that hardship
or good cause exists for such allowance;
   (C)   An agreement by and between the city and the owner is recorded at the
developer’s expense wherein the owner agrees as follows:
      (1)   To voluntarily annex when legally able to do so (if not in
corporate limits) by submission of an application for annexation, including all
applicable fees, to the City Planning and Zoning Department to be held until
such time as annexation becomes available; at which time the City Planning and
Zoning Department will automatically annex said parcel into the city limits;
      (2)   To the installation of the sidewalk, curb and gutter and street
improvements at the expense of the owner after annexation (if annexation is
applicable) and upon 60 days’ notice by the city;
      (3)   No temporary or permanent structure or landscaping will be added
which shall impede pedestrian access in the area of the future sidewalk;
      (4)   To participate in any local improvement district (LID) formed for
the purpose of completing any or all such improvements upon subject frontage;
and
      (5)   To comply with the terms of this section, the violation of which
shall be subject to penalty as outlined in §
01-01-05.
(Ord. 2794, passed 7-20-2009; Ord. 3347, passed 5-17-2021)
§ 12-17-05 RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMITS.
   The owner/developer of any lands governed by this chapter shall submit an
application for a right-of-way permit on a form to be created by the
Engineering Department. No work shall be done in any public right-of-way until
said application has been approved and a right-of-way permit has been approved
and issued by the Engineering Department. The Engineering Department may set
out requirements for right-of-way permit applications so long as said
requirements are reasonably related to protecting persons and public property,
which requirements shall include, at a minimum, the following:
   (A)   Three sets of all on- and off-site improvement plans, as prepared and
stamped by a professional engineer licensed in the state, which plans shall
include plans and profiles for street improvements, sidewalk, curb and gutters,
street lighting, sewer system, water system and/or storm sewers which shall be
filed with the City Engineer along with any applicable plan review fees; and
which plans shall be reviewed by the City Engineer for compliance with this
chapter and any rules and regulations set forth herein. In the event the City
Engineer finds that the plans are in compliance, the City Engineer shall so
certify to the Building Official. In the event the City Engineer finds that the
plans are not in compliance, he or she shall so state and advise the owner/
developer of the specifics of the failure of compliance. Once the City Engineer
has approved said plans, a preconstruction meeting shall be held prior to
commencement of any construction on site. Preconstruction meetings,
construction and inspections shall take place as outlined in §
11-04-04;
   (B)   A traffic control plan compliant with the IPWC Manual and the city
supplement thereto; and
   (C)   Proof of insurance in the amount not less than $1,000,000. The city
shall be listed thereon as a certificate holder and an additional insured. Said
proof of insurance shall stipulate that the city be held harmless in the event
any claim is made.
(Ord. 2794, passed 7-20-2009; Ord. 3347, passed 5-17-2021; Ord. 3515, passed 6-
20-2023)
§ 12-17-06 FINANCIAL GUARANTEE REQUIREMENTS.
   Prior to the City Engineering Department’s signature on a permanent
certificate of occupancy, all improvements required herein shall be completed
by the owner/developer. The owner/developer may, in lieu of actual
construction, file with the city a financial guarantee. Financial guarantees
provided in lieu of construction will only be permitted for a duration to be
approved by the City Engineer. Failure on behalf of owner/developer to complete
said requirements within the time frame approved by the City Engineer may
result in the city exercising its rights to utilize funding available from the
provided financial guarantee to complete said improvements. In instances where
the owner/developer provides a financial guarantee in lieu of construction, the
owner/developer will only be granted a temporary certificate of occupancy. A
permanent certificate of occupancy will not be granted until all required
improvements are completed.
   (A)   Financial guarantees shall be in the form of:
      (1)   Cash deposited with and held by the city pending final completion
of the improvements as required in this chapter;
      (2)   Cash backed irrevocable letter of credit, drawn from a financial
institution located within 50 miles of the city, that has been submitted to and
accepted by the City Engineer and is irrevocable until final completion of all
required improvements as stated within this chapter; and/or
      (3)   Alternate forms of financial guarantee may be accepted by the city
upon a finding by both the City Attorney and the City Engineer that such
alternate form of financial guarantee is in the best interest of the city.
   (B)   Financial guarantees shall be submitted to and accepted by the City
Engineer prior to the City Engineering Department’s signature on the permanent
certificate of occupancy.
   (C)   The financial guarantee shall be an amount equal to 125% of the City
Engineer’s estimate of cost on the remaining work as required in this chapter
and shall include inflation, city bidding disadvantage and city project
management.
      (1)   Estimated cost on remaining work as required in this chapter shall
be determined in part by detailed bids from the owner/developer’s contractors
as issued on said contractors’ letterhead and submitted to the City Engineer
and totaled. To that total, an allotment of 5% for inflation, 10% for city
bidding disadvantage and 12% for city project management is figured and then
added to the total bid amounts. Then 125% is calculated and that is the
financial guarantee amount.
      (2)   Remaining work as required in this chapter shall be determined by
the Engineering Department in the form of a punchlist which shall be compiled
by the Engineering Department following an inspection by the Engineering
Department. Remaining work shall not include anything other than what is
required in this chapter.
   (D)   The financial guarantee is good for 12 months only. If construction of
improvements as required in this chapter has not been completed within 12
months of submittal of the financial guarantee, remaining work as required in
this chapter shall be completed by the city and the construction costs
recovered from the financial guarantee.
   (E)   Financial guarantees shall be written to allow the city to draw upon
the financial guarantee at any time at the discretion of the City Engineer as
well as to allow multiple draws by the city.
   (F)   Financial guarantees shall not be released by the city unless and
until all of the improvements as required in this chapter (including required
dedications) have been completed by the owner/developer and accepted by the
City Engineer and by any other applicable agencies or city departments
responsible for acceptance and maintenance.
(Ord. 2794, passed 7-20-2009; Ord. 3347, passed 5-17-2021)
§ 12-17-07 NUISANCE.
   Any improvements placed upon real property subject to this chapter without
the developer and/or owner having complied with the terms and conditions of
this chapter shall be considered a nuisance and the city may apply to the
District Court for an injunction ordering the cessation of all construction
activity and/or the removal of all construction which occurred in violation of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2794, passed 7-20-2009; Ord. 3347, passed 5-17-2021)
CHAPTER 19: APPEALS
Section
   
12-19-01   Purpose
   
12-19-03   Board of Building Appeals established
   
12-19-05   Powers of the Board; standard of review
   
12-19-07   Terms; officers
   
12-19-09   Services and supplies
   
12-19-11   No compensation
   
12-19-13   Appeal procedure
§ 12-19-01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish an Appeals Board to hear appeals
to any decisions of the Building Official in his or her administration of
duties set forth in this title. However, if a decision of the Building Official
is made pursuant to an adopted international, model or uniform code, which code
contains its own appellate procedures, such procedures shall be followed in the
appeal of that decision, in lieu of those set forth herein. Nevertheless, any
Appeals Board created under an international, model or uniform code shall look
to this chapter for guidance and supplementation concerning appellate rules and
procedure, to the extent this chapter is not inconsistent with said
international, model or uniform code.
(Ord. 2852, passed 12-20-2010)
§ 12-19-03 BOARD OF BUILDING APPEALS ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby created the Board of Building Appeals, hereinafter called
the Board, an administrative office of the city. The Board shall consist of
five members, appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council. No
city officer or employee shall serve on the Board. In making appointments the
Mayor shall consider integrity, impartiality and knowledge of building
construction or other related fields.
(Ord. 2852, passed 12-20-2010)
§ 12-19-05 POWERS OF THE BOARD; STANDARD OF REVIEW.
   The Board shall have the power to hear appeals from decisions of the
Building Official. In all cases, the decision of the Building Official shall be
affirmed, unless the Board finds that the decision was arbitrary, capricious or
an abuse of discretion unsupported by the evidence presented to and/or
considered by the Building Official. The Board shall not have the authority to
waive any requirements of this code, including any international, uniform or
model codes adopted by reference therein.
(Ord. 2852, passed 12-20-2010)
§ 12-19-07 TERMS; OFFICERS.
   Members of the Board shall serve for five-year terms, provided that the
persons first appointed shall serve for one-, two-, three-, four- and five-year
terms so one term will expire each year. Terms will start on the date the
initial five members are officially appointed. The Board shall select from
among its members a Chair, Vice Chair and Secretary.
(Ord. 2852, passed 12-20-2010)
§ 12-19-09 SERVICES AND SUPPLIES.
   The City Clerk shall assign office help and provide supplies for the work of
the Board, as necessary.
(Ord. 2852, passed 12-20-2010)
§ 12-19-11 NO COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Board shall serve without pay. Members may be reimbursed for
their expenses.
(Ord. 2852, passed 12-20-2010)
§ 12-19-13 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   Any person aggrieved by any decision of any person or persons in the
Building Department may appeal in the manner provided in this section.
   (A)   Appeal to Building Official. Within ten working days of the decision
complained of, the person making the appeal shall file a written notice of
appeal to the Building Official. The notice of appeal may be filed by
delivering it to the Building Official and shall set forth the particular
section(s) of the code(s) involved and a detailed statement of the grounds and
reasons why the decision made should be modified or vacated. A filing fee, in
an amount set by resolution of the City Council, shall be submitted with the
notice of appeal to cover administrative costs and shall be made payable to the
city and directed to the Building Official. The Building Official shall decide
the appeal within ten working days if no hearing is requested. If the person
taking the appeal asks for a hearing, the Building Official shall schedule an
informal hearing, with three days’ notice by telephone or mail to the person
taking the appeal. If there is a hearing, the Building Official will make his
or her decision within ten days after said hearing is held. If the decision
complained of was made by the Building Official, the appellant may proceed to
division (C) below and direct his or her appeal directly to the Appeals Board.
   (B)   Written decisions. All decisions of the Building Official under this
section shall be in writing.
   (C)   Appeal to Appeals Board. Any person aggrieved by a decision of the
Building Official hereunder may, within ten working days of the decision,
appeal to the Building Appeals Board. The appeal shall be started by filing a
written petition with the City Clerk, requesting a hearing of the appeal
setting forth the particular section(s) of the code(s) involved and a detailed
statement of the grounds and reasons why the decision made should be modified
or vacated. A filing fee, in an amount set by resolution of the City Council,
shall be submitted with the petition for appeal to cover administrative costs
and shall be made payable to the city and directed to the City Clerk. Failure
to file a timely written petition as required herein shall constitute a waiver
of the right to appeal and the decision of the Building Official shall
constitute a final determination.
   (D)   Schedule of hearing. Upon receipt of a timely filed written petition
with the City Clerk, and the appropriate filing fee, the City Clerk shall
promptly notify the Chairperson of the Board and the Building Official of the
appeal. The City Clerk shall arrange a time and place for hearing on the
appeal. Written notification of the time, place and nature of the hearing shall
be given to the petitioner and the Board members within ten days after the
petition is filed with the City Clerk. Hearing shall be scheduled no later than
30 days after the date on which the petition was filed and may be extended for
a reasonable period by the Chairperson upon written request of the petitioner
or Building Official, for good cause shown. If a petitioner fails to appear at
a scheduled hearing of his or her appeal, the Board may proceed with the
hearing and make a decision in the absence of the petitioner.
   (E)   Referral to other boards. If the dispute appears to be under the
jurisdiction of any other board or commission, the Secretary of the Board shall
suggest to the person filing the appeal that he or she may apply for relief
from such other board or commission. The Appeals Board may defer action while
such other board is studying the action. The Board may, on its own motion,
refer any appeal to any such board, deferring action until the other board
reaches a decision.
   (F)   Hearing procedures.
      (1)   The hearing shall be open to the public and shall be recorded
either by mechanical or manual means. Opportunity shall be afforded all parties
to respond and present evidence and argument on all issues involved. Parties
may represent themselves or may be represented by legal counsel.
      (2)   Irrelevant, immaterial or unduly repetitious evidence may be
excluded. A finding shall be based upon the kind of evidence on which
reasonably prudent persons are accustomed to rely for the conduct of their
serious affairs, and may be based upon such evidence even if it would be
inadmissible in a court of law. The Appeals Board shall give effect to the
rules of privilege recognized by law. Objections to the evidentiary offers may
be made and shall be noted in the record. Subject to these requirements, when a
hearing will be expedited and the interest of the parties will not be
prejudiced substantially, any part of the evidence may be required to be
submitted in verified written form.
      (3)   Documentary evidence may be received in the form of copies or
excerpts, if the original is not readily available. Upon request, parties shall
be given an opportunity to compare the copy with the original, if available.
      (4)   Witnesses at the hearing, or available persons whose testimony has
been submitted in written form, shall be subject to cross-examination by any
party as necessary for a full and true disclosure of the facts.
      (5)   The Board’s experience, technical competence and specialized
knowledge may be utilized in the evaluation of the evidence.
      (6)   The Chairperson of the Board or his or her designee shall conduct
the hearing and have power to administer oaths. The Board may cause subpoenas
to be issued for such witnesses and the production of such books and papers as
either party may designate. The subpoenas may be signed by the Chairperson of
the Board.
      (7)   No hearing shall be valid unless a majority of the Board is present
and no decision at the hearing shall be valid and binding unless reached by a
majority of all members of the Board.
   (G)   Prompt decisions. If the matter is not referred to another board, the
Appeals Board shall announce its decision within 20 working days of the date of
the hearing before the Board.
   (H)   Appeal to the City Council.
      (1)   Any party aggrieved by a decision of any person or persons in the
Building Department made in the administration of the duties of the Building
Official set forth in this title, after appealing said decision to the Building
Official and, thereafter, to the Building Appeals Board, may subsequently
appeal said decision to the City Council by filing a written notice of such
appeal with the City Clerk within ten days of the date of the decision of the
Building Appeals Board.
      (2)   The City Council will conduct a public hearing at the next
regularly scheduled Council meeting, following receipt of the appeal, provided
that a notice period of at least 15 days be provided prior to said hearing. If
there is not sufficient time for allowing said notice then the public hearing
will be held at the first regularly scheduled Council meeting which will allow
for a 15-day notice of hearing.
      (3)   The public hearing shall be conducted in accordance with the
provisions of the State Administrative Procedures Act, Idaho Code §§ 67-5201 et
seq.
      (4)   The decision of the City Council as to the appeal shall be a final
decision.
      (5)   A party aggrieved by the appeal decision may seek judicial review
in the District Court of the Third Judicial District within 28 days of the
issuance of the appeal decision by the City Council.
(Ord. 2852, passed 12-20-2010; Ord. 3171, passed 8-20-2018)
TITLE 13: PUBLIC WORKS CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
      Chapter
      
1.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT AND DISCHARGE CONTROL
      
3.   PUBLIC WORKS CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
      
5.   ACCESS MANAGEMENT STANDARDS FOR CITY STREETS
CHAPTER 1: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT AND DISCHARGE CONTROL
Section
   
13-01-01   Title, purpose and general provisions
   
13-01-03   Discharge regulations and requirements
   
13-01-05   Stormwater management plans and comprehensive drainage plans
   
13-01-07   Inspection and enforcement
§ 13-01-01 TITLE, PURPOSE AND GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Title. This chapter shall be known as the City of Caldwell Stormwater
Management and Discharge Control Ordinance and may be so cited.
   (B)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   The purpose and intent of this chapter is to:
         (a)   Protect and enhance the water quality of the city’s
watercourses, water bodies, groundwater and wetlands in a manner pursuant to
and consistent with the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.;
         (b)   Control non-stormwater discharges to storm drains and reduce
pollutants in stormwater discharges;
         (c)   Provide design, construction, operation and maintenance criteria
for permanent and temporary on-site stormwater management facilities to control
stormwater runoff; and
         (d)   Encourage the recharge of groundwater, where appropriate, and
prevent the degradation of groundwater quality.
      (2)   Discharges into the municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) may
be subject to further regulation by the State Department of Environmental
Quality.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENT. The Director of Public Works and/or any
individual designated by the Director of Public Works as an authorized
enforcement agent.
      BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Schedules of activities, prohibitions
of practices, maintenance procedures and other management practices to prevent
or reduce the pollution of “waters of the United States.” BMPs also include
treatment requirements, operating procedures and practices to control site
runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal or drainage from raw
material storage.
      C.F.R. The Code of Federal Regulations.
      CITY. The City of Caldwell, Idaho.
      CITY MUNICIPAL STORMWATER MANAGEMENT MANUAL. The most recently adopted
version of the design standards manual prepared by the City Public Works
Department which provides design, performance and review criteria for
stormwater management practices.
      CITY NON-STORMWATER DISPOSAL BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES. Best management
practices adopted by reference by this chapter for non-stormwater disposal.
      CLEAN WATER ACT (CWA). Federal Water Pollution Control Act enacted by
Pub. Law No. 92-500 as amended by Pub. Law No. 95-217, 95-576, 96-483 and 97-
117; 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
      COMPREHENSIVE DRAINAGE PLAN. A stormwater management plan (SWMP) that
covers all current and anticipated development on a site greater than ten acres
and sites planned for phased development.
      DEVELOPMENT. Any construction, reconstruction, conversion, structural
alteration, relocation or enlargement of any structure within the jurisdiction
of the city as well as any human-made change or alteration to the landscape,
including, but not limited to, mining, drilling, dredging, grading, paving,
excavating and filling.
      DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS. The Director of the City Public Works
Department.
      DISCHARGE. Any addition or introduction of any pollutant, stormwater or
any other substance whatsoever into the municipal storm sewer system (MS4),
waters of the state or into waters of the United States.
      DISCHARGER. Any person who causes, allows, permits or is otherwise
responsible for a discharge, including, without limitation, any operator of a
construction site or industrial facility.
      FIREFIGHTING WATER. Any water, and any substance or materials contained
therein, used in an emergency, to control or extinguish a fire.
      IDAHO POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (IPDES) PERMIT. A permit
issued by the State Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) in compliance
with the federal Clean Water Act for the discharge of pollutants from any point
source into the waters of the United States. This chapter refers to this as the
STATE PROGRAM hence forward.
      ILLICIT CONNECTION. Any physical connection to a publicly maintained
storm drain system composed of non-stormwater, which has not been permitted by
the public entity responsible for the operation and maintenance of the system.
      ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any discharge to a storm drain system that is not
composed entirely of stormwater except discharges pursuant to an IPDES permit.
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. A surface which prevents or retards the penetration
of water into the ground, including, but not limited to, roofs, sidewalks,
patios, driveways, parking lots, concrete and asphalt paving, gravel, compacted
native surfaces and earthen materials and oiled, macadam or other surfaces
which similarly impede the natural infiltration of stormwater.
      MAJOR MODIFICATION. An alteration to an existing or planned stormwater
drainage facility that does one or more of the following: changes the volume,
surface area, depth, capacity, inflow rates, outflow rates or level of
treatment by 5% or more; changes the treatment process; adds more than 1,000
square feet of impervious surface; or increases the tributary impervious
drainage area to an individual drainage facility component by more than 10%.
      MUNICIPAL NPDES PERMIT. An area wide NPDES permit that is issued to a
government agency or agencies for the discharge of pollutants from any point
source into the waters of the United States.
      MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4). A conveyance or system of
conveyance (including roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch
basin, curb, gutters, ditches, human-made channels or storm drains) owned or
operated by a public body (created under state law) having jurisdiction over
disposal of sewage, industrial wastes, stormwater or other wastes, including
special districts under state law, such as sewer district, flood control
district or drainage district, or similar entity that discharges to the waters
of the United States and which are not part of a publicly owned treatment works
(“POTW”) as defined at 40 C.F.R. § 122.2.
      NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A permit
issued by the U.S. EPA, Region 10, in compliance with the federal Clean Water
Act for the discharge of pollutants from any point source into the waters of
the United States. See IDAHO POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM.
      NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge that is not entirely composed of
stormwater.
      OWNER or OPERATOR. The owner or operator of any facility or activity
subject to regulation under the federal NPDES program, including operational
and day-to-day control over facility activities.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, club, organization,
corporation, partnership, business trust, company or other entity which is
recognized by law as the subject of rights or duties.
      POLLUTANT. Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter
backwash, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes,
biological materials, radioactive materials (except those regulated under the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. §§ 2011 et seq.)), heat,
wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt and industrial,
municipal and agricultural waste discharged into water, and as otherwise
defined in 40 C.F.R. § 122.2.
      PREMISES. Any building, lot, parcel of land or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
      REDEVELOPMENT. A project for which a building permit is required that
proposes to add, replace and/or alter impervious surfaces affecting the
existing drainage system, other than routine maintenance, resurfacing or
repair. A project which meets the criteria of a major modification, as defined
in this section, shall be considered a REDEVELOPMENT.
      STORMWATER. Water runoff and surface drainage associated with rainstorm
events and snowmelt.
      STORMWATER MANAGEMENT. The process of collection, conveyance, storage,
treatment and disposal of stormwater to ensure control of the magnitude and
frequency of runoff and to minimize the hazards associated with flooding. Also
includes implementing controls to reduce the discharge of pollutants, including
management practices, control techniques and systems, design and engineering
methods.
      STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN. Details of the drainage system, structures,
BMPs, concepts and techniques that will be used to control stormwater,
including drawings, engineering calculations, computer analyses, maintenance
and operations procedures and all other supporting documentation.
      U.S. EPA. United States Environmental Protection Agency.
      VARIANCE. A modification of the requirements of this chapter.
      WATERS OF THE STATES (WOTUS). All the accumulations of water, surface and
underground, natural and artificial, public and private, or parts thereof which
are wholly or partially within, which flow through or border upon the state.
      WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES. Waters as defined in 40 C.F.R. § 122.2.
      WETLAND. An area that is inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater
at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances does support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for
life in saturated soil conditions. WETLANDS generally include swamps, marshes,
bogs and similar areas.
   (D)   Applicability. This chapter shall apply to all activities which may
potentially affect the MS4, any private storm drain which may potentially
affect the MS4 or any body of water within the city and any activity which
discharges pollutants into such systems, except for those activities contained
entirely on federal or state, or county lands and that do not impact adjacent
jurisdictions. Additionally, permanent and temporary stormwater management
controls and facilities, constructed as part of any activities listed in this
section, which are located within the city limits, are also subject to this
chapter. The stormwater management standards shall apply to industrial,
commercial, institutional and multi-family residential development, as well as
subdivision projects with private access.
   (E)   Regulatory consistency. This chapter shall be construed to assure
consistency with the requirements of the federal Clean Water Act and acts
amendatory thereof or supplementary thereto, applicable implementing
regulations and the municipal NPDES permit and any amendments, revisions or
reissuance thereof. No permit or approval issued pursuant to this chapter shall
relieve a person of the responsibility to secure permits and approvals required
for activities regulated by any other applicable rule, code, act, permit or
ordinance.
   (F)   Severability. If any provision, clause, sentence or paragraph of this
chapter or the application thereof to any person, establishment or circumstance
shall be held invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or
application of this chapter which can be given effect without the invalid
provision or application, and to this end, the provisions of this chapter are
hereby declared to be severable.
(Ord. 2884, passed 12-5-2011; Ord. 3677, passed 3-3-2025)
§ 13-01-03 DISCHARGE REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   Any illicit discharge to any storm drain, including both the MS4 and private
storm drains, is a violation of this chapter unless exempted by provisions of
divisions (F) and (G) below.
   (A)   General requirements and prohibitions.
      (1)   Any person engaged in activities which will or may result in
pollutants entering a storm drain shall undertake reasonable measures to reduce
such pollutants. Examples of such activities include, but are not limited to,
improper application, overuse and disposal of herbicides, pesticides and
fertilizers; activities related to automobile businesses, including service
stations, automobile dealerships, car washes and body shops; and light
industrial facilities which may be a source of pollutants.
      (2)   No person shall throw, discard, deposit, abandon or permit to be
thrown, deposited, placed or abandoned, any refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter or
other discarded or abandoned objects, articles and accumulations, in or upon
any street, alley, sidewalk, storm drain inlet, catch basin, conduit or other
drainage structures, parking area, within or in proximity to any public or
private plot of land so that the abandoned might be or become a pollutant.
      (3)   No person shall cause or permit any dumpster, solid waste bin or
similar container to leak such that any pollutant is discharged into any
street, alley, sidewalk, storm drain, inlet, catch basin, conduit or other
drainage structures, business place or upon any public or private plot of land
in the city.
      (4)   The occupant or tenant, the owner, lessee or proprietor of any real
property in the city where there is located a paved sidewalk or parking area
shall maintain said paved surface free of dirt or litter to the extent
reasonable and practicable and provide an adequate means for the disposal of
refuse, rubbish, garbage or other articles so as to prevent such matter from
entering a storm drain. Sweepings from said sidewalk shall not be swept or
otherwise made or allowed to go into the gutter or roadway but shall be
disposed of in receptacles maintained on said real property.
      (5)   No person shall throw or deposit any pollutant in any fountain,
pond, lake, stream or any other body of water in a park or elsewhere within the
city, except as otherwise permitted under local, state or federal law.
   (B)   Illicit connections and discharges. It is prohibited to establish,
use, maintain or continue illicit drainage connections to the MS4, or to
commence or continue any illicit discharges to the MS4.
      (1)   Corrective action procedure in which pollutant has not entered the
MS4.
         (a)   Written citation.
            1.   If the spill or discharge has dissipated, the city shall issue
a written citation or verbal warning to the property owner or responsible
party. This warning shall address any noncompliance issues that require
attention. See §
13-01-07 regarding written warnings.
            2.   If the spill or discharge needs clean up, the city will issue
a notice to clean to the property owner or responsible party. The responsible
party shall comply with city ordinance, policy or standard by the date that is
listed in the letter.
         (b)   Return inspection and notice of violation. If minimal or no
action has been taken by the responsible party to resolve the issue, the city
shall issue a notice of violation letter with a subsequent compliance deadline.
A City Stormwater Division staff member shall perform a return inspection to
ensure corrective actions have been implemented.
         (c)   Cease and desist order with or without penalty. At a later date,
if minimal or no action has been taken by the responsible party to resolve the
issue, the city shall issue a cease and desist notice to the responsible party.
         (d)   Clean up and invoicing. If the cease and desist notice prompts
no remedial action by the responsible party, the city may correct the
contaminant or pollutant release and invoice the responsible party for the
costs incurred. If the incident shall occur again within one year, then the
city shall issue a citation, outline of correspondence and issue a penalty not
to exceed $1,000. Invoices unpaid after 90 days shall be sent to collections.
      (2)   Corrective action procedure (pollutant has entered the MS4 system).
         (a)   Initial action. The city shall issue a notice of violation and/
or notice to clean letter with a subsequent compliance deadline. A City
Stormwater Division staff member shall perform a return inspection to ensure
corrective actions have been implemented.
         (b)   Clean up and invoicing. If the notice of violation or notice to
clean prompts no remedial action, the city may correct the contaminant or
pollutant release and invoice the party responsible for the costs incurred. If
the incident shall occur again within one year, then the city shall issue a
citation, outline of correspondence and issue a penalty not to exceed $1,000.
Invoices unpaid after 90 days shall be sent to collections.
   (C)   Parking lots and similar structures.
      (1)   Persons owning or operating a paved parking lot, gas station
pavement, paved private street or road or similar structure or conducting
routine building wash downs, shall clean and maintain those structures
consistent with the city’s non-stormwater disposal best management practices
prior to discharging to a storm drain.
      (2)   Newly developed or significantly redeveloped covered permanent
parking garages may drain into a storm drain when no feasible alternative is
available, with the consent of the owner and operator and in accordance with
this chapter and other city ordinances. The owner and operator of a storm drain
may impose requirements, including the construction of control structures to
ensure the pretreatment of such discharges prior to entry into the storm drain.
All water from direct stormwater sources that enter uncovered parking garages
is to go to a stormwater disposal system in accordance with §
13-01-05.
   (D)   Outdoor storage areas; commercial and industrial facilities.
      (1)   In outdoor areas, no person shall store grease, oil or other
hazardous substances in a manner that will or may result in such substances
entering a storm drain system. In outdoor areas, no person shall store motor
vehicles, machine parts or other objects in a manner that may leak grease, oil
or other hazardous substances into a storm drain.
      (2)   To prevent the discharge of hazardous substances to the MS4, the
city may require the installation of a spill containment system. Spill
containment systems may consist of a system of dikes, walls, barriers, berms or
other devices as required. No person shall operate a spill containment system
such that it allows incompatible liquids to mix and thereby create a hazardous
condition.
   (E)   Construction sites. Construction in certain areas of the city requires
dewatering due to high groundwater. All construction sites that dewater must
comply with the following requirements to minimize the discharge of pollutants
into the city’s MS4:
      (1)   Contact the City Stormwater Department or Public Works Department
before dewatering to the city’s MS4. Obtain written authorization to discharge
to the MS4 from said parties. Unauthorized discharges shall be considered a
violation of this code;
      (2)   Route dewatering water through a sediment control (e.g., settling
pond, rock check dam, filter bag and the like); and
      (3)   Any person performing construction work in the city shall comply
with the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   Limitations on permit coverage.
      (1)   Non-stormwater discharges. Non-stormwater discharges are not
permitted, except where such discharges satisfy one of the following
conditions.
         (a)   The non-stormwater discharges are in compliance with an
applicable NPDES permit other than the city’s IPDES permit.
         (b)   The non-stormwater discharges result from a spill and:
            1.   Are the result of an unusual and severe weather event where
reasonable and prudent measures have been taken to minimize the impact of such
discharge; and
            2.   Consist of emergency discharges required to prevent imminent
threat to human health or severe property damage, provided that reasonable and
prudent measures have been taken to minimize the impact of such discharges.
         (c)   The non-stormwater discharges satisfy each of the following
conditions and subject to compliance with current state water quality
standards.
            1.   The discharges consist of uncontaminated water line flushing;
potable water sources; landscape irrigation (provided all pesticides,
herbicides and fertilizer have been applied in accordance with manufacturer’s
instructions); lawn watering; irrigation water; flows from riparian
groundwaters; uncontaminated groundwater infiltration (as defined at 40 C.F.R.
§ 35.2005(20)) to separate storm sewers; uncontaminated pumped groundwater or
spring water; foundation and footing drains (where flows are not contaminated
with process materials such as solvents); uncontaminated air conditioning or
compressor condensate; water from crawl space pumps; individual residential car
washing; dechlorinated swimming pool discharges; routine external building wash
down which does not use detergents; street and pavement wash waters, where no
detergents are used and no spills or leaks of toxic or hazardous materials have
occurred (unless all spilled material has been removed); fire hydrant flushing;
or flows from emergency firefighting activities.
            2.   The discharges are not sources of pollution to waters of the
United States (WOTUS). A discharge is considered a source of pollution to WOTUS
for the purposes of this section if it:
               a.   Contains hazardous materials in concentrations found to be
of public health significance or to impair beneficial uses in receiving waters
(hazardous materials are those that are harmful to humans and animals from
exposure, but not necessarily ingestion);
               b.   Contains toxic substances in concentrations that impair
designated beneficial uses in receiving waters (toxic substances are those that
can cause disease, malignancy, genetic mutation, death or similar
consequences);
               c.   Contains deleterious materials in concentrations that
impair designated beneficial uses in receiving waters (deleterious materials
are substances that contaminate the aquatic food chain and fish tissue for
human consumption, possible drinking water sources or cause harm to the aquatic
environments);
               d.   Contains radioactive materials or radioactivity at levels
exceeding the values listed in 10 C.F.R. part 20 in receiving waters;
               e.   Contains floating, suspended or submerged matter of any
kind in concentrations causing nuisance or objectionable conditions or in
concentrations that may impair designated beneficial uses in receiving waters;
               f.   Contains excessive nutrients that can cause visible slime
growths, harmful algal blooms or other nuisance aquatic growths that impair
designated beneficial uses or public safety impairment in receiving waters;
               g.   Contains oxygen demanding materials in concentrations that
would result in anaerobic water conditions in receiving waters;
               h.   Contains sediment above quantities specified in IDAPA
58.01.02.250.02.e or in the absence of specific sediment criteria, above
quantities that impair beneficial uses in receiving waters; or
               i.   Contains material in concentrations that exceed applicable
natural background conditions in receiving waters (IDAPA 58.01.01.200.09).
Temperature levels may be increased above natural background conditions when
allowed under IDAPA 58.02.02.401.
      (2)   Discharges threatening water quality. No person is authorized to
discharge stormwater that will cause or have the reasonable potential to cause
or contribute to an excursion above the state water quality standards.
      (3)   Discharge compliance with antidegradation policy. No person is
authorized to discharge stormwater that does not comply with the state’s
antidegradation policy for water quality standards.
      (4)   Snow disposal to receiving waters. No person is authorized to
dispose of snow directly to WOTUS or directly to the MS4. Discharges are
authorized when such sites/practices are operated or performed in accordance
with the city’s non-stormwater disposal best management practices (BMPs).
      (5)   Stormwater discharges associated with industrial and construction
activity. Discharge stormwater associated with industrial activity (as defined
in 40 C.F.R. § 122.26(b)(14)), and stormwater associated with construction
activity (as defined in 40 C.F.R. § 122.26(b)(14)(x) and (b)(15)), is
authorized only when such discharges are otherwise authorized under an
appropriate IPDES permit.
   (G)   Discharge pursuant to IPDES permit. The prohibition of discharges
shall not apply to any discharge regulated under an IPDES permit issued and
administered by the state, provided that the discharger is in full compliance
with all requirements of the permit and other applicable laws or regulations.
Compliance with an applicable IPDES permit governing discharges into the MS4
shall be considered compliance with this chapter.
   (H)   Compliance with IPDES permits.
      (1)   Any discharge that would cause a violation of a municipal IPDES
permit and any amendments, revisions or reissuance thereof, either separately
considered or when combined with other discharges, is prohibited. Liability for
any such discharge shall be the responsibility of the person(s) causing or
responsible for the discharge, and the city shall seek to have such persons
defend, indemnify and hold harmless the city in any administrative or judicial
enforcement action against the permit holder relating to such discharge as
provided by applicable rules of law.
      (2)   All persons in charge of a facility are to comply with applicable
federal and state laws, including facility personnel, training, training record
maintenance, training records, maintenance of notification procedures and
implementation of notification requirements for spill response to assure
containment, cleanup and immediate notification to the city.
      (3)   Individuals responsible for spills are to comply with applicable
state and federal notification requirements to assure containment, cleanup and
immediate notification to the city.
(Ord. 2884, passed 12-5-2011; Ord. 3677, passed 3-3-2025)
§ 13-01-05 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLANS AND COMPREHENSIVE DRAINAGE PLANS.
   (A)   Requirements. To minimize the discharge and transport of pollutants to
storm drains and prevent the deterioration of water quality, certain new
developments and redevelopment projects will be required to submit for approval
a stormwater management plan or a comprehensive drainage plan to control the
quality, volume and rate of stormwater runoff. The “City Municipal Stormwater
Management Manual” establishes standards and guidelines for implementing BMPs
and stormwater management plans and is incorporated by reference and made part
of this chapter.
      (1)   Stormwater management plans or comprehensive drainage plans are
required for industrial, commercial and institutional developments which
require a building permit and multi-family residential developments that are
not part of a larger subdivision project, as well as subdivision projects that
have private access, which also require a building permit.
      (2)   Redevelopment projects may be required to submit complete
stormwater management plans or operation and maintenance plans if they meet the
criteria found in the “City Municipal Stormwater Management Manual.”
      (3)   Stormwater management plans and comprehensive drainage plans shall
be developed in accordance with the “City Municipal Stormwater Management
Manual.”
      (4)   The City Council reserves the right to amend, modify and/or add
requirements to the “City Municipal Stormwater Management Manual.” References
to the “City Municipal Stormwater Management Manual” in this chapter refer to
the most currently adopted version.
   (B)   Submission and review process.
      (1)   Stormwater management designs and/or comprehensive drainage plans
shall be submitted at the time building or civil plans are submitted. The plans
shall be submitted to the City Building Department as part of the building
permit application package. In those instances where stormwater management
plans and comprehensive drainage plans are required, but no building permit is
required, said plans shall be submitted to the City Engineering Division. The
plans shall be reviewed by the City Engineering Department for their compliance
with the “City Municipal Stormwater Management Manual” and other applicable
rules and standards. Plans developed to meet federal or state requirements may
be submitted and will be approved if they substantially conform to the
requirements of this chapter.
         (a)   No plan shall be approved that increases the peak level of
stormwater runoff from impervious areas, unless the plan identifies measures to
control and limit runoff to peak levels no greater than would occur from the
site if left in its natural, undeveloped condition.
         (b)   No development or use of land which requires a stormwater
management plan or comprehensive drainage plan as per the “City Municipal
Stormwater Infrastructure Design Manual” shall be permitted without the City
Engineering Division approval of such plan.
         (c)   No building permit or final certificate of occupancy shall be
issued without an approved stormwater management plan if required under this
section.
      (2)   The city shall be notified of the commencement of any development
covered by a comprehensive drainage plan and the owner or responsible person
shall be required to provide engineering certification that the development is
in conformity with the previously approved comprehensive drainage plan.
      (3)   Any modifications to comprehensive drainage plans shall be
submitted to the City Engineering Division for approval, provided, however, for
comprehensive drainage plans approved pursuant to this chapter as amended, only
major modifications must be submitted for approval. All modifications to
singular stormwater management plans must be submitted to the City Engineering
Department with a request for approval and a new stormwater management plan
shall be submitted upon request of the City Engineering Division or Public
Works Department.
      (4)   Approval of the stormwater management plan or comprehensive
drainage plan does not relieve the owner or responsible party from the duty to
ensure the systems and their safety measures function as designed.
      (5)   Approval may be suspended or revoked at any time if conditions are
not as stated or shown in the approved application or implementation of the
plan is not proceeding in the approved manner.
      (6)   Approval of a stormwater management plan or a comprehensive
drainage plan may be suspended if the project is not completed within a two-
year period or development has ceased for a period of more than two years;
however, a one-year extension may be granted upon a written request which
provides the reason(s) for the delay or cessation of development and specifies
a time frame for completion or commencement of development.
      (7)   If suspension or revocation of approval is necessary, the owner
will receive notice of this decision and may appeal to the City Engineer. A
written request for appeal and hearing must be made within ten days of the
notice of suspension or revocation.
      (8)   If approval is suspended or revoked, the owner shall be required to
submit a new plan for approval, with the requisite fee, prior to starting or
continuing the planned project or development.
      (9)   If undue hardship would result from strict application of the
requirements of this chapter, a person may request a variance.
         (a)   The variance request must be submitted in writing to the City
Engineering Department with a fee in an amount provided for in a fee schedule
adopted by resolution of the City Council.
         (b)   The person requesting a variance shall state in detail the
reason for the request and provide supporting documentation.
         (c)   If a request for variance is denied by the City Engineering
Division, the denial may be appealed to the City Council within ten days of
notice of denial. The City Council shall provide the aggrieved party with a
hearing date and an opportunity to present an argument in favor of the variance
request. The City Council will not accept additional supporting documentation
if the information was reasonably available at the time the request for
variance was made and could have been submitted to the City Engineering
Division.
         (d)   A variance shall not be considered a right or special privilege.
      (10)   Approval of any plans by the City Engineering Division shall not
create a liability on the part of or cause of action against the city or any
officer or employee thereof regarding the plan or its operation.
   (C)   Maintenance of stormwater facilities.
      (1)   Stormwater facilities shall be maintained by the owner or other
responsible party and, when there is a potential to discharge stormwater, shall
be repaired and/or replaced by such person when such facilities are no longer
functioning as designed.
      (2)   Disposal of waste from maintenance of facilities shall be conducted
in accordance with applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations.
      (3)   Records of installation and maintenance and repair shall be
retained by the owner or other responsible party for a period of five years and
shall be made available to the City Public Works Department upon request.
      (4)   Any failure to maintain facilities or correct problems with
facilities after receiving due notice from the city may result in criminal or
civil penalties and the city may perform corrective or maintenance work which
shall be at the owner’s expense.
      (5)   Any repairs or restoration/replacement and maintenance shall be in
accordance with city-approved plans.
      (6)   If a stormwater BMP is failed and/or negatively impacts the MS4
system, the responsible party is required to address the issues with said BMP.
Any failure to maintain facilities or correct problems with facilities after
receiving due notice from the city may result in criminal or civil penalties
and the city may perform corrective or maintenance work which shall be at the
owner’s expense.
      (7)   Note that city staff shall adhere to the following corrective
action procedure in the event a privately operated stormwater management system
has become a public nuisance.
         (a)   Inspection and citation. An inspection report, summary of
required actions and notice to correct shall be sent to the responsible person
(s). This report shall address any BMP failures that require attention. A
Stormwater Division staff member shall perform a return inspection to ensure
corrective actions have been implemented.
         (b)   Return inspection and notice of violation/notice to clean.
Following a return inspection, if no or minimal action has been made by the
responsible person(s), a second notice to repair and notice of violation shall
be sent. A public works staff member shall perform a return inspection to
ensure corrective actions have been implemented sufficiently.
         (c)   Cease and desist order with or without penalty. If no action is
taken, the violator(s) will receive a citation, at the discretion of the
inspector, and an initial monetary penalty amount, not to exceed $1,000. If no
response is granted by the violator(s) to the permittee after receiving said
notice of violation, the city may correct any problems and invoice the
responsible person(s) for the costs incurred.
(Ord. 2884, passed 12-5-2011; Ord. 3677, passed 3-3-2025)
§ 13-01-07 INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Inspections.
      (1)   Stormwater systems shall be inspected by the City Public Works
Department staff during and after construction to ensure functionality similar
to the approved storm drainage design and/or comprehensive drainage plan.
      (2)   All stormwater systems shall be subject to the authority of the
Stormwater Division, a division of the City Public Works Department, to ensure
compliance with this chapter and may be inspected when deemed necessary.
      (3)   The owner or delegated responsible party shall perform annual
inspections of the stormwater facilities, and they shall maintain records of
such inspections for a period of five years.
      (4)   Stormwater best management practice (BMP) infrastructure may be
inspected by the City Stormwater Division but shall be maintained entirely by
the property owner. Responsible person(s) shall clean and maintain those
structures consistent with the inspection report provided following the routine
inspections of each BMP facility performed by city staff.
      (5)   Whenever necessary to make an inspection to enforce any of the
provisions of this chapter, or whenever an authorized enforcement inspector has
reasonable cause to believe that there exists upon any premises any condition
which may constitute a violation of the provisions of this chapter, the
inspector may enter such premises at all reasonable times to inspect the same
or perform any duty imposed upon the inspector by this chapter; provided, that:
         (a)   If such premises is occupied, he or she first shall present
proper credentials and request entry; and
         (b)   If such building or premises is unoccupied, he or she first
shall make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other persons having
charge or control of the building or premises and request entry.
      (6)   The property owner or occupant has the right to refuse entry but,
in the event such entry is refused, the inspector is hereby empowered to seek
assistance from any federal agency, state agency or court of competent
jurisdiction in obtaining such entry and performing such inspection.
      (7)   Routine facility or site area inspections shall be based upon
reasonable selection processes as may be deemed necessary to carry out the
objectives of this chapter, including, but not limited to, random sampling and/
or sampling in areas with evidence of stormwater pollution, illicit discharges
or similar factors.
   (B)   Sampling. With the consent of the owner or occupant or with court
consent, any authorized enforcement Stormwater Division staff may establish on
any property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling or metering
operations. During all inspections as provided herein, the employee may take
any samples deemed necessary to aid in the pursuit of the inquiry or to record
the on-site activities.
   (C)   Testing and monitoring.
      (1)   (a)   Whenever the Public Works Director or his or her designee
determines that persons engaged in any activity and/or owning or operating any
facility may cause or contribute to an illicit discharge to the stormwater
system, the Public Works Director or his or her designee may, by written
notice, order that such person undertake such monitoring activities and/or
analyses and furnish such reports as the City Public Works Director or designee
may recommend. The written notice shall be served either in person or by
certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, and shall set forth the
basis for such order and shall particularly describe the monitoring activities
and/or analyses and reports required. The burden to be borne by the owner or
operator, including costs of these activities, analyses and reports, shall bear
a reasonable relationship to the need for monitoring, analyses and reports and
the benefits to be obtained.
         (b)   The recipient of such order shall undertake and provide the
monitoring, analyses and reports within the time frames set forth in the order.
      (2)   Within 20 days of the date of receipt of the order notice, the
recipient shall respond personally or in writing advising the city of the
recipient’s position with respect to the order’s requirements. Thereafter, the
recipient shall be given the opportunity to meet with the Public Works Director
or his or her designee to review the order’s requirements and revise the order
as the Public Works Department staff deem necessary. Within ten days of such
meeting, the City Public Works Director or designee shall issue a final written
order. Final orders of the City Director of Public Works or designee may be
appealed to the City Council by the filing of a written appeal with the City
Clerk within ten days of receipt of the final order. The appeal notice shall
set forth the order requirements or issues being appealed. The City Council
shall hear the appeal at its earliest practical date and may either affirm,
revoke or modify the order. The decision of the City Council shall be final.
      (3)   In the event the owner or operator of a facility fails to conduct
the monitoring and/or analyses and furnish the reports required by the order in
the time frames set forth therein, the city may cause such monitoring and/or
analyses to occur and assess all costs incurred, including reasonable
administrative costs and attorneys’ fees, to the facility owner or operator.
The city may pursue judicial action to enforce the order and recover all costs
incurred and monetary penalties from pollution to state waters and/or WOTUS.
   (D)   Violations constituting misdemeanors. The knowing violation of any
provision of this chapter or knowing failure to comply with any of the
mandatory requirements of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor,
punishable as provided in Idaho Code §§ 18-113 and 50-302(1), as amended. Such
knowing violator(s) will also incur a monetary penalty for violation of the
city’s IPDES permit.
   (E)   Continuing violation. Unless otherwise provided, a person, firm,
corporation or organization shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for
each and every day during any portion of which a violation of this chapter is
committed, continued or permitted by the person, firm, corporation or
organization and shall be punishable accordingly, as herein provided.
   (F)   Concealment. Causing, permitting, aiding, abetting or concealing a
violation of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a violation of such
provision.
   (G)   Acts resulting in violation of Federal Clean Water Act. Any person who
violates any provision of this chapter, any provision of any permit issued
pursuant to this chapter, or who discharges pollutants, waste or wastewater so
as to cause an illicit discharge into the MS4, or who violates any cease and
desist order, prohibition or effluent limitation, also may be in violation of
the federal Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq. and may be subject
to the sanctions of that Act, including civil and criminal penalties in
addition to hereinbefore provided enforcements.
   (H)   Violations deemed a public nuisance.
      (1)   In addition to the penalties hereinbefore provided, any condition
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this
title shall be considered a threat to the public health, safety, welfare and
the environment, may be declared and deemed a nuisance by the City’s Public
Works Director or his or her designee and may be summarily abated and/or
restored by the city and/or civil action taken to abate, enjoin or otherwise
compel the cessation of such nuisance.
      (2)   The cost of such abatement and restoration shall be borne by the
owner of the property and the cost thereof shall be a lien upon and against the
property and such lien shall continue in existence until the same shall be
paid.
      (3)   If any violation of this chapter constitutes a seasonal and
recurrent nuisance, the Public Works Director or designee shall so declare.
Thereafter, such seasonal and recurrent nuisance shall be abated by the
responsible party every year without the necessity of any further declaration.
      (4)   In any administrative or civil proceeding under this chapter in
which the city prevails, the city may be awarded all costs of investigation,
administrative overhead, out of pocket expenses, costs of administrative
hearings, costs of suit and reasonable attorneys’ fees.
   (I)   Civil actions. In addition to any other remedies provided in this
section, any violation of this section may be enforced by civil action brought
by the city. In any such action, the city may seek, and the court shall grant,
as appropriate, any or all the following remedies:
      (1)   A temporary and/or permanent injunction;
      (2)   Assessment of the violator for the costs of any investigation,
inspection or monitoring survey which led to the establishment of the
violation, and for the reasonable costs of preparing and bringing legal action
under this division (I);
      (3)   Costs incurred in removing, correcting or terminating the adverse
effects resulting from the violation; and
      (4)   Compensatory damages for loss or destruction to water quality,
wildlife, fish and aquatic life. Assessments under this division (I) shall be
paid to the city to be used exclusively for costs associated with monitoring
and establishing stormwater discharge control systems and/or implementing or
enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
   (J)   Administrative enforcement powers. In addition to the other
enforcement powers and remedies established by this chapter, any authorized
enforcement agent has the authority to utilize the following administrative
remedies.
      (1)   Cease and desist orders. When an authorized enforcement inspector
finds that a discharge has taken place or is likely to take place in violation
of this chapter, the inspector may issue an order to cease and desist such
discharge, or practice, or operation likely to cause such discharge and direct
that those persons not complying shall:
         (a)   Comply with the requirement;
         (b)   Comply with a time schedule for compliance; and/or
         (c)   Take appropriate remedial or preventive action to prevent the
violation from recurring.
      (2)   Notice to clean/notice of violation. Whenever an authorized
enforcement inspector finds any oil, earth dirt, grass, weeds, dead trees, tin
cans, rubbish, refuse, waste or any other material of any kind, in or upon the
sidewalk abutting or adjoining any parcel of land, or upon any parcel of land
or grounds or in close proximity to any open drain or ditch channel, which may
result in an increase in pollutants entering the storm drain or a non-
stormwater discharge to the storm drain, he or she may give notice to remove
and lawfully dispose of such material in any manner that he or she reasonably
may provide. The recipient of such notice shall undertake the activities as
described in the notice within the time frames set forth therein.
      (3)   Written citation with or without penalty.
         (a)   The authorized enforcement inspector shall, at his or her
discretion, have the right to provide the violator(s) with a written citation
outlining the cease and desist order and/or a notice to clean order, or any
combination thereof. The inspector will also provide timelines at which the
orders listed above shall be executed, at his or her discretion, depending on
next storm and precipitation predictions. The citation will note that if the
cease and desist order and/or the notice to clean orders are not executed in
the allowed time frames, the violator(s) shall be subject to a monetary penalty
in addition to what was previously listed in this chapter, for the violation of
the city’s IPDES permit, not to exceed $13,000, by the discharging of pollution
to state waters and/or WOTUS, and/or possible misdemeanor charges, and/or
incarceration of up to 12 months.
         (b)   In the event the owner or operator of a facility fails to
conduct the activities as described in the citation, the Public Works Director
or designee may cause such required activities as described in the citation to
be performed, and the cost thereof shall be assessed and invoiced to the owner
of the property, for the reason of being in violation of the city’s IPDES
permit, and discharging pollution to state waters and/or WOTUS. If the invoice
is not paid within 60 days, a lien shall be placed upon and against the
property.
   (K)   Non-exclusivity of remedies. Remedies under this chapter are in
addition to and do not supersede or limit all other remedies, civil or
criminal. The remedies provided for herein shall be cumulative and not
exclusive.
   (L)   Appeal. Any person, firm, corporation or organization notified of
noncompliance with this chapter or required to perform monitoring, analyses,
reporting and/or corrective activities who is aggrieved by the decision of the
authorized enforcement inspector may appeal such decision in writing to the
City Council within ten days following the effective date of the decision. Upon
receipt of such appeal, the City Clerk shall request a report and
recommendation from the authorized enforcement inspector and shall set the
matter for administrative hearing at the earliest practical date. At said
hearing, the City Council may hear additional evidence, and may revoke, affirm
or modify the authorized enforcement inspector’s decision. Such decision shall
be final.
   (M)   Disclaimer of liability. The degree of protection required by this
chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on
scientific, engineering and other relevant technical considerations. The
standards set forth herein are minimum standards and this chapter does not
imply that compliance will ensure that there will be no unauthorized discharge
of pollutants into the waters of the United States (WOTUS). This chapter shall
not create liability on the part of the city, any staff or employee thereof for
any damages that result from reliance on this title, or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder.
   (N)   Enforcement. A person, firm, corporation or organization shall be
deemed guilty if violation of this chapter is committed, continued or permitted
by the person, firm, corporation or organization and shall be punishable
accordingly, as herein addressed in this chapter.
(Ord. 2884, passed 12-5-2011; Ord. 3677, passed 3-3-2025)
CHAPTER 3: PUBLIC WORKS CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
Section
   
13-03-01   Short title
   
13-03-03   Purpose
   
13-03-05   Authority
   
13-03-07   Definition
   
13-03-09   Establishment of uniform standards
   
13-03-10   Public infrastructure
   
13-03-11   Appeal procedure
   
13-03-13   Repeal and rescission
   
13-03-15   Saving clause
   
13-03-17   Effective date
§ 13-03-01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be referred to as the Caldwell Public
Works Construction Standards Ordinance.
(Ord. 2489, passed 3-1-2004)
§ 13-03-03 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the establishment of,
and the implementation of, a uniform system of standards relating to public
works construction within the city. Such a system will allow builders,
contractors, developers and property owners to know what standards relating to
public works construction apply to construction, development sites and other
property within the city.
   (B)   The further purpose of this chapter is to provide for economy and
efficiency in the administration of city government and thereby provide for
safety, health, prosperity, peace and good order, comfort and convenience of
the city and the inhabitants thereof, and protecting the property therein.
(Ord. 2489, passed 3-1-2004)
§ 13-03-05 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to Idaho Code § 67-6518.
(Ord. 2489, passed 3-1-2004)
§ 13-03-07 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC WORKS CONSTRUCTION. Any construction within a public right-of-way or
easement or construction on the city sewer system, city water system, city
streetlight system, city irrigation system, city airport, city storm drain
system or any appurtenance thereof.
(Ord. 2489, passed 3-1-2004)
§ 13-03-09 ESTABLISHMENT OF UNIFORM STANDARDS.
   (A)   The City Engineer shall prepare and/or submit proposed uniform
standards for public works construction to the City Council for review and
adoption.
   (B)   Prior to adoption, amendment or rejection of said standards, the City
Council shall hold a hearing in accordance with the procedure established for
public hearings by Idaho Code § 67-6509.
   (C)   The “2015 Idaho Standards for Public Works Construction,” prepared and
published under the direction of the State Local Highway Technical Assistance
Council, is hereby adopted as the official public works construction standards
for the city, subject to the provisions of any supplemental specifications
adopted by said city.
   (D)   The “City of Caldwell Supplemental Specifications to the 2015 Idaho
Standards for Public Works Construction,” prepared by and under the direction
of the City Engineer, is incorporated herein and hereby adopted as the official
supplemental specifications to the “2015 Idaho Standards for Public Works
Construction,” for the city.
   (E)   The City Engineer shall implement the adopted public works
construction standards whenever applicable.
   (F)   When the City Engineer is of the opinion that an amendment of the
construction standards or supplemental specifications is necessary or
appropriate, the proposed amendment shall be submitted to the City Council for
review. Adoption of an amendment to said standards or specifications shall be
in the same manner as adoption of the original standards or specifications.
   (G)   The City Engineer shall propose a reasonable fee for reimbursement of
costs associated with providing copies of the “City of Caldwell Supplemental
Specifications to the 2015 Idaho Standards for Public Works Construction” to
the public. Fees shall be approved and adopted by resolution of the City
Council.
(Ord. 2489, passed 3-1-2004; Ord. 3020, passed 11-16-2015)
§ 13-03-10 PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE.
   (A)   All public infrastructure shall be constructed within public rights-
of-way or easements, meeting all the standards described in §
13-03-09, allowing full access to said public infrastructure for maintenance
purposes. During and at the completion of construction, all work must be
inspected and approved by the Engineering Department and, upon request,
dedicated to the city through an owner’s request and City Council approval.
   (B)   Upon final approval of construction and dedication, when applicable,
and unless otherwise documented through a dedication resolution, the contractor
agrees to a two-year warranty for that public infrastructure. A duration of
less than two years may be permitted if explicitly authorized in writing by the
City Engineer.
(Ord. 3623, passed 8-5-2024)
§ 13-03-11 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any party aggrieved by a decision of the City Engineer in
administering public works construction standards provided for herein may
appeal said decision to the City Council by filing a written notice of such
appeal with the City Clerk within ten days of the date of such decision.
   (B)   Appeals to the City Council shall be processed as a contested case
pursuant to
Title 1, Chapter 5 of this code.
(Ord. 2489, passed 3-1-2004)
§ 13-03-13 REPEAL AND RESCISSION.
   Any prior ordinance or part thereof, or any prior resolution adopted
pursuant thereto, which is inconsistent with or contradictory to this chapter
or the standards adopted pursuant to this chapter relating to public works
construction is hereby rescinded and repealed. Provisions of this chapter and
the standards implemented hereunder are not to be taken as a statement of
intent by the City Council regarding the meaning or interpretation of any other
ordinance.
(Ord. 2489, passed 3-1-2004)
§ 13-03-15 SAVING CLAUSE.
   The provisions of this chapter and subsequently adopted standards are hereby
declared to be severable. If any provisions of this chapter and subsequently
adopted standards or application of such provision to any person or
circumstances is declared to be invalid for any reason, such declaration shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portion of this chapter and
subsequently adopted standards.
(Ord. 2489, passed 3-1-2004)
§ 13-03-17 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage,
approval and publication according to law.
(Ord. 2489, passed 3-1-2004)
CHAPTER 5: ACCESS MANAGEMENT STANDARDS FOR CITY STREETS
Section
   
13-05-01   Title and applicability
   
13-05-02   Purpose, benefits and goals of access management
   
13-05-03   Principles of access management
   
13-05-04   Access management tools
   
13-05-05   Access management requirements for spacing and driveway separation
   
13-05-06   Access considerations for principal and minor arterials
   
13-05-07   Access considerations for collector streets
   
13-05-08   Access considerations for local streets
   
13-05-09   Appeal procedure
§ 13-05-01 TITLE AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known and may be referred to as the Caldwell
Access Management Standards for City Streets.
   (B)   For access management standards along state-owned highways within or
near the city, the State Transportation Department has authority for those
highways, and may be reached at their District 3 Southwest Idaho office.
(Ord. 3618, passed 8-5-2024)
§ 13-05-02 PURPOSE, BENEFITS AND GOALS OF ACCESS MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Access management is the control of the location, spacing, design and
operation of driveways, median openings and street connections to the public
rights-of-way. Access management principles also help guide decisions involving
land use planning, corridor design, the movement of people, goods and services
by all modes of transportation and land development.
   (B)   The purpose of access management is to support the desired land use
patterns as identified in established city planning documents, and support the
safe and efficient movement of people, goods and services by all modes of
transportation.
   (C)   Successful access management should support land use plans and
priorities and enhance the improvements to benefit all modes of transportation.
Access management benefits all modes of transportation, such as walking,
biking, transit and motorized vehicle use of all types.
   (D)   Using a combination of strategies derived from land use planning,
transportation planning, motorized and non-motorized transportation
engineering, livable street design and performance measurements, and law,
access management accomplishes the following:
      (1)   Advances land use and transportation plans and priorities of the
city by maintaining travel mobility for the efficient movement of people, goods
and services by all modes of transportation;
      (2)   Helps preserve public investment in transportation facilities for
all users by maintaining the functional performance of these facilities as
intended;
      (3)   Promotes sustainable land use patterns while preserving the
investment in commercial, residential and other developments that depend on all
modes of safe and reliable transportation;
      (4)   Improves safety and capacity by the appropriate use of turn lanes
to enter and exit the public right-of-way, thereby limiting motor vehicle speed
differences, decreasing the likelihood of traffic collisions and promoting
reasonable travel times; and
      (5)   Increases safety by reducing the number of potential traffic
collisions by reducing conflict points.
(Ord. 3618, passed 8-5-2024)
§ 13-05-03 PRINCIPLES OF ACCESS MANAGEMENT.
   The following general principals apply to proper access management:
   (A)   Provide appropriate land use access based on desired street purpose.
Different types of streets serve different functions. It is important to design
and manage streets according to the primary functions by which they are
expected to serve land use and transportation plans;
   (B)   Limit conflict points for all users. Driveways, unsignalized
intersections and commercial access provide more opportunity for different
street users to cross paths. Access management seeks to limit these conflicts
to only those locations necessary to support the adjacent land uses;
   (C)   Limit direct access onto arterials (principal and minor) defined in
the most recently adopted Community Planning Association of Southwest Idaho
(COMPASS) “Long-Range Planning Functional Classification Map for Canyon
County,” including future updates to said map;
   (D)   Be coordinated with land use plans. Frequent and direct property
access is more compatible with the function of local and collector streets.
Some arterials support locations identified as activity centers by land use
jurisdictions. The city should seek to balance access management principles
with the vision of the land use plan;
   (E)   Promote intersection hierarchy. An efficient transportation network
that supports an efficient, diverse and productive system of land uses provides
appropriate transitions from one classification of street typology to another;
   (F)   Locate signals (or other intersection improvements) to support local
land uses determined by the partner agency to promote reasonable travel times.
Long, uniform spacing of intersections and signals on mobility arterials and
some major roadways enhances the ability to coordinate signals and ensure
continuous movement of motor vehicle traffic to promote reasonable travel
times. Failure to carefully locate access connections or median openings can
undermine land use values and public investment in those uses and may
unreasonably increase travel times;
   (G)   Limit conflicts near intersections and interchanges. Intersections and
interchanges require the greatest attention from all users. Safe movement is
paramount in these locations as all users are at the greatest risk of
conflicts. Limiting direct access in close proximity to intersections decreases
complexity and promotes increased awareness of other users;
   (H)   Limit the number of conflict points and help drivers pay attention to
the context of where they are driving. All users of the right-of-way make more
mistakes and are more likely to have collisions when they are not given cues to
expect the presence of people in or approaching the right-of-way;
   (I)   Separate conflict areas. All users traveling in the public rights-of-
way need sufficient time to address one potential set of conflicts before
facing another. The necessary spacing between conflict areas increases as
travel speed increases, helping to provide drivers adequate perception and
reaction time;
   (J)   Use non-traversable medians to manage left-turn movements in
appropriate locations. Medians channel motor vehicle turning movements on
mobility corridors and some arterials to designated locations. Therefore, non-
traversable medians and other techniques that minimize left turns or reduce
conflicts can be especially effective in improving safety. Full median
openings, which allow left turns by motor vehicles from either direction, are
best provided at signalized intersections and unsignalized junctions of
arterial and collector streets. Full median openings in other unsignalized
locations can adversely affect the safety of people in the public rights-of-way
and travel time but may be appropriate in some areas where analysis indicates
that traffic operations and the safety of people in the public right-of-way
would be improved;
   (K)   Provide connectivity by a supporting street and circulation system.
Well-planned communities provide a supporting network of local and collector
streets to accommodate development, as well as unified property access and
circulation systems. The most recently adopted COMPASS Long-Range Planning
Functional Classification Planning Map for Canyon County identifies the desired
collector network, which should be preserved with rare exception.
Interconnected street and circulation systems provide safe low-stress routes
for people traveling by all modes of transportation. In locations where this
connectivity has not been provided for, the arterial network bears an undue
burden. Commercial strip development with separate driveways for each business
and without the facilities to allow people to safely access and navigate those
developments by non-motorized transportation modes forces even short trips to
be made by motorized vehicle onto arterial streets, thereby impeding safety and
mobility and increasing travel times for all users of the public rights-of-way.
Connectivity and access management together help provide for a well-functioning
street network for all users;
   (L)   Utilization of modern roundabouts, particularly for collector and
local streets, shall be considered, and have advantages of fewer conflict
points and lower speeds. Intersection and driveway spacing at roundabouts is
treated similar to that for un-signalized intersections; and
   (M)   Promote the maximum accessibility of properties, while recognizing the
city’s right to restrict access, control traffic flow and assure safe
conditions, utilizing such items as traffic control devices, lane
configurations and changes to access locations.
(Ord. 3618, passed 8-5-2024)
§ 13-05-04 ACCESS MANAGEMENT TOOLS.
   (A)   Cross motor vehicle access easements/shared motor vehicle access.
Cross motor vehicle access utilizes a single vehicular connection that serves
two or more adjoining lots or parcels so that the driver of a motor vehicle
does not need to re-enter the street system. The city may require cross access
or require the preservation of locations for future cross access.
   (B)   Temporary access. Access by people using any mode of transportation
that is permitted for use until appropriate alternative access becomes
available. Temporary access by people using any mode of transportation
appropriate for the context may be granted through a development agreement or
similar method, and the developer shall be responsible for providing a
financial guarantee for the future closure of the driveway.
   (C)   Frontage/backage and local access service roads. A frontage/backage
road is an access road that generally parallels an arterial between the
arterial and the front building setback line, or behind a building. A frontage/
backage road provides direct lot access to private properties while separating
them from the principal roadway. Access on frontage/backage roads may include
access by pedestrians and people using non-motorized vehicles.
(Ord. 3618, passed 8-5-2024)
§ 13-05-05 ACCESS MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS FOR SPACING AND DRIVEWAY SEPARATION.
   (A)   Proper spacing of access points and driveway separation vary with such
factors as street classification, speed limit, distance from intersections that
are either signalized or unsignalized, volume of traffic using a driveway,
whether the driveway is a full movement or restricted movement driveway, along
with other situational factors.
   (B)   Table 13.1 shows criteria for access spacing and driveway separation
for various factors listed above. Judgment must be applied by professionals and
city staff for unusual circumstances, but the criteria in Table 13.1 is the
applied standard. Variances from the standard must be justified and approved by
the City Engineer.
Table 13.1 Access Spacing/Driveway Separation Criteria
               From a Near Signalized  Away from a Signalized Intersection/
Street         Intersection            Successive Spacing
Classification Full Movement Right-in/ Posted Speed Separation for Driveway
                             Right-out              Local Streets  Separation
Table 13.1 Access Spacing/Driveway Separation Criteria
               From a Near Signalized     Away from a Signalized Intersection/
Street         Intersection               Successive Spacing
Classification               Right-in/    Posted Separation
               Full Movement Right-out    Speed  for Local  Driveway Separation
                                                 Streets
                                                 Separation Driveways Driveways
               Greater of:                25     for local  >150VTD** <150 VTD
                                                 streets
Collector      *AOI or 440;  220                 330        245       150
               If stop                    30     330        260       150
               control
               intersection: 35                  330        285       150
               >AOI or 150
               150 from arterial/collector intersection
Local          75 from local street intersection
               Local streets must match of offset 125
               660 (710 for               25-40  660        Full movement
Minor Arterial dual left     330                            330
               turns); or                 45     660        380
               roundabout                 50     660        425
               Only at                    30-35  1,320      Right-in/right-out
Principal      signalized    Same as away 40     1,320      355
Arterial       intersection  from         45     1,320      400
               or roundabout intersection 50     1,320      450
                                                            520
Notes to Table:
*area of influence of intersection **vehicle trips/day generated by driveway
All measurements are centerline-to-centerline.
All distance numbers are in feet and are considered the minimum distance.
This criteria applies to new development and redevelopment.
Access shall be taken off lesser-classified street if available, unless
otherwise approved by the City Engineer.
Access is not allowed in the vision triangle of a street intersection.
New access points on principal arterials may be approved as temporary full
movement and may be restricted in the future with roadway widening or as
traffic conditions warrant.
New access points within city adopted corridor plans may be governed by the
requirements of the corridor plan.
 
(Ord. 3618, passed 8-5-2024)
§ 13-05-06 ACCESS CONSIDERATIONS FOR PRINCIPAL AND MINOR ARTERIALS.
   (A)   General considerations.
      (1)   Principal arterials serve the major regional centers of activity of
a metropolitan area, higher traffic volume corridors and longer trips.
Principal arterials carry the major portion of trips entering and leaving the
urban area, as well as the majority of through movements. To preserve the long-
term functionality of such roadways, they should have more access control than
a minor arterial.
      (2)   Minor arterials interconnect with and augment the principal
arterial system and provide service to trips of shorter length at a lower level
of travel mobility than principal arterials. Minor arterials also distribute
travel to geographic areas smaller than those identified with the higher
systems. This classification includes all arterials not included in a higher
classification and places more emphasis on land access than principal
arterials. Such roadways should still have limited access with less access
control than a principal arterial, but more than a collector.
      (3)   Due to the higher volume of vehicular traffic expected on arterial
roadways, additional care should be taken in providing safe facilities for
bicyclists and pedestrians. The preferred treatment for bicyclists and
pedestrians is a multi-use path. In some situations, alternative facilities may
be used based on existing roadway and land use conditions. City staff will
identify the bike and pedestrian facility that will be required through
development. For purposes of this policy, a multi-use path qualifies as a side
path as defined in the state code.
   (B)   Access points.
      (1)   All access points associated with development applications shall be
determined in accordance with the policies in this chapter. Access points shall
be reviewed only for a development application that is being considered.
Approved access points may be relocated and/or restricted in the future if the
land use intensifies, changes or the property redevelops. Notwithstanding any
provision herein, the City Engineer may approve access to be taken off of
higher classified streets to support corresponding land use plans, if it is
found that allowing such access does not reduce the safety of users of the
public rights-of-way.
      (2)   If an application does not substantially increase the intensity of
use, and no reasonable alternative exists to reduce or eliminate the
deficiency, the City Engineer may allow the deficient driveway approach to be
retained at the same location.
   (C)   Signalized collector street intersection spacing on minor and
principal arterials.
      (1)   The optimum spacing for new signalized collector roadways
intersecting minor arterials is one-half mile. In order to maintain the
function of the arterial street system, the goal is to allow no more than one
signal per mile (with connectivity within the square mile to that signal
location). The spacing of signalized intersections on arterials is critical to
traffic progression and the optimization of the arterial street system.
      (2)   Deviations from the one-half mile spacing may be considered:
         (a)   To accommodate the design and layout of an existing collector
street system;
         (b)   Within existing central business districts;
         (c)   If specified by an adopted corridor study or specific area plan;
and
         (d)   If there are no other reasonable site design, access or
circulation alternatives eliminating the need for a signal; and if there is a
proven public necessity for the intersection; and a traffic signal study and
traffic analysis reviewed and approved by the city verifies the need.
   (D)   Local street intersection spacing on arterials. New local streets
should not typically intersect arterials. Local streets should typically
intersect collectors. If it is necessary, as determined by the city, for a
local street to intersect an arterial, the minimum allowable offset shall be as
identified in
Table 13.1.
   (E)   Number of driveways on arterials. The intent of this policy is to
limit the number of access points to those that are warranted or necessary to
serve the development, while maintaining the function and performance of the
arterial. The guidelines below shall be used when more than one access point is
being requested with a development. Additional driveways may be considered when
one or more of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The daily volume using one driveway exceeds 5,000 vehicles (total
volume for entering and exiting traffic);
      (2)   Traffic using one driveway exceeds the volume to capacity ratio (v/
c) equal to or greater than 1.0 of a STOP controlled intersection during either
the peak hour of the street or the peak hour of the site traffic generation;
and
      (3)   A city approved traffic impact study and analysis determines that
conditions warrant additional driveways.
   (F)   Driveway spacing on minor arterials from existing or future signalized
intersections. To determine if there is a single or dual left turn lane
planned, refer to the most recently adopted municipal area transportation
system plan. If the intersection is not listed in that plan, then assume a
single left turn lane. Dimensions shall be measured from the centerline of the
intersection to the centerline of the driveway.
   (G)   Single left turn lane. If a driveway is approved by the city based on
the policies listed above, then driveways located near a signalized
intersection with an existing or planned single left turn lane shall be
located:
      (1)   A minimum of 330 feet from the intersection for a right-in/right-
out driveway; and
      (2)   A minimum of 660 feet from the intersection for a full-movement
driveway.
   (H)   Dual left turn lane. Driveways located near a signalized intersection
with an existing or planned dual left turn lane shall be located:
      (1)   A minimum of 330 feet from the intersection for a right-in/right-
out driveway; and
      (2)   A minimum of 710 feet from the intersection for a full-movement
driveway.
   (I)   Driveway spacing on minor arterials (away from a signalized
intersection).
      (1)   Direct lot or parcel access to a minor arterial is typically
prohibited.
      (2)   If a property has frontage on more than one street, access shall be
taken from the street having the lesser functional classification.
      (3)   Driveways located on an arterial may be prohibited when the
property has frontage on one or more other public streets.
      (4)   For property with frontage on more than one street, access shall be
provided from the street having the lower current or projected average daily
traffic volume (ADT), and/or the lesser functionally classified street (i.e.,
frontage on arterial and collector, access shall be from collector). The city
shall determine which street has the lower volume.
      (5)   If it is necessary to take access to the higher classified street
due to a lack of frontage, the minimum allowable spacing shall be based on
Table 13.1. The spacing shall be measured from all other existing or approved
driveways or intersecting streets on either side of the minor arterial.
   (J)   Driveway spacing on principal arterials.
      (1)   Direct lot or parcel access to a principal arterial is typically
prohibited.
      (2)   If a property has frontage on more than one street, access shall be
taken from the street having the lesser functional classification.
      (3)   Driveways located on arterials may be prohibited when the property
has frontage on one or more other public streets.
      (4)   For property with frontage on more than one street, access shall be
provided from the street having the lower current and projected average daily
traffic volume (ADT), and/or the lesser functionally classified street (i.e.,
frontage on arterial and collector, access shall be from collector). The city
shall determine which road has the lower volume.
      (5)   If it is necessary to take access to the higher classified street
due to a lack of frontage, the minimum allowable spacing shall be based on
Table 13.1. The spacing shall be measured from any other existing or approved
driveway or street on either side of the street.
      (6)   Driveways, when approved on a principal arterial, shall operate as
right-in/right-out only. The city will require the construction of a raised
median in the principal arterial to restrict the left turning movements on the
principal arterial. Deceleration/right-turn lanes may be required by the city,
even if a traffic impact study does not warrant it.
      (7)   The city may consider a temporary full access driveway when the
following conditions are met:
         (a)   It is a single lane principal arterial (one lane in each
direction of travel);
         (b)   The road has less than 24,000 ADT;
         (c)   Traffic safety, operations and site conditions provide
reasonable access to a parcel without placing an undue burden on the
surrounding road network, as determined by the city. The City Engineer shall
have authority to grant temporary full access under this policy, upon first
making findings of fact, and conclusions based thereon, that:
            1.   A parcel of real property proposed for development is so
unusual in size, shape, location and/or physical condition that strict
enforcement of one or more of the access standards contained in this policy
would result in extraordinary economic and design hardships and practical
difficulties, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience;
            2.   Modifications of such standards will not jeopardize pedestrian
and motorist safety or otherwise be injurious to other adjacent property or
detrimental to public safety, health or welfare;
            3.   Conditions for the request for modification are unique to the
property for which the modification is sought and are not applicable generally
to other property; and
            4.   The modification will not contravene the overall intent or
effect of this policy.
         (d)   If granted, temporary access will be administered per §
13-05-04(A).
(Ord. 3618, passed 8-5-2024)
§ 13-05-07 ACCESS CONSIDERATIONS FOR COLLECTOR STREETS.
   (A)   General considerations for collector streets.
      (1)   The primary function of a collector is to intercept traffic from
the local street system and carry that traffic to the nearest arterial. A
secondary function is to service adjacent property. Access will be limited or
controlled.
      (2)   Due to the higher volume of vehicular traffic expected on collector
roadways, additional care should be taken in providing safe facilities for
bicyclists and pedestrians.
   (B)   Access points.
      (1)   All access points associated with development applications shall be
determined in accordance with the policies in this chapter. Access points shall
be reviewed only for a development application that is being considered.
Approved access points may be relocated and/or restricted in the future if the
land use intensifies, changes or the property redevelops.
      (2)   If an application does not substantially increase the intensity of
use, and no reasonable alternative exists to reduce or eliminate the
deficiency, the City Engineer may allow the deficient driveway approach to be
retained at the same location.
   (C)   Signalized intersection spacing on collectors. The preferred spacing
for new collectors intersecting existing collectors is one-quarter mile to
allow for adequate signal spacing and alignment. Access points on a collector
that require signalization shall be public streets.
   (D)   Driveway spacing on collectors near existing or future signalized
intersections and roundabouts. Access is typically prohibited within the
influence area of the intersection. For roundabouts, the area of influence is
generally considered the area from the intersection to the far end of the
splitter islands.
   (E)   Driveways located near a signalized intersection.
      (1)   Driveways located near a signalized intersection shall be located
in accordance with one of the following, whichever is greater:
         (a)   Outside the area of influence; or
         (b)   Two hundred twenty feet for a right-in/right-out driveway and
440 feet for a full-movement driveway.
      (2)   Dimensions shall be measured from the centerline of the
intersection to the centerline of the driveway.
   (F)   Driveway spacing on collectors near stop-controlled intersections.
      (1)   Access is typically prohibited within the influence area of the
intersection.
      (2)   For roundabouts, the area of influence is generally considered the
area from the intersection to the far end of the splitter islands.
   (G)   Driveways located near a stop controlled intersection.
      (1)   Driveways located near a stop controlled intersection shall be
located in accordance with one of the following, whichever is greater:
         (a)   Outside the area of influence; or
         (b)   One hundred fifty feet.
      (2)   Dimensions shall be measured from the centerline of the
intersection to the centerline of the driveway.
   (H)   Driveway spacing on collectors (away from a signalized intersection).
Access restrictions to collectors shall be based upon the type of access that
is being proposed according to
Table 13.1. The spacing shall be measured from any other existing or approved
driveway or street on either side of the street.
(Ord. 3618, passed 8-5-2024)
§ 13-05-08 ACCESS CONSIDERATIONS FOR LOCAL STREETS.
   (A)   General considerations for local streets. The primary function of a
local (residential) street is to serve adjacent property. Adjacent property
will usually have unrestricted access to the street and ADT will typically be
less than 2,000. Access to local streets is generally unrestricted, except near
intersections.
   (B)   Driveway spacing.
      (1)   Near intersections. Driveways on a local street shall be located a
minimum of 75 feet (measured centerline to centerline) from the nearest local
street intersection, and 150 feet from the nearest collector or arterial street
intersection. This is not applicable for single-family dwelling units.
      (2)   Successive driveways. Away from an intersection there are no
minimum spacing requirements for access points along a local street, but the
city does encourage shared access points where appropriate.
   (C)   Local street intersections. Local streets intersecting other local
streets shall either align with another street or provide a minimum offset of
125 feet from any other street (measured centerline to centerline).
(Ord. 3618, passed 8-5-2024)
§ 13-05-09 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any party aggrieved by a decision of the City Engineer in
administering city access management standards provided for herein may appeal
said decision to the City Council by filing a written notice of such appeal
with the City Clerk within ten days of the date of such decision except that
such appeal shall be applicable only to items at the City Engineer’s discretion
as granted herein.
   (B)   Appeals to the City Council shall be processed as a contested case,
pursuant to §
01-05-11.
(Ord. 3618, passed 8-5-2024)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Idaho Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO IDAHO CODE
Idaho Code Section Code Section
Idaho Code Section      Code Section
Title 7, Chapter 6      08-06-11
Title 18                08-01-01
                        01-13-01;
                        04-11-03;
                        04-19-15;
                        08-01-25;
18-113                  08-03-07;
                        08-03-19;
                        08-03-25;
                        08-03-27;
                        08-05-09;
                        13-01-07
18-919                  06-05-10
18-1515                 06-05-10
18-2318                 01-07-02
18-4103 through 18-4105 06-05-10
18-4116                 06-05-10
18-8301 et seq.         06-05-10
18-8401 et seq.         06-05-10
19-3801 through 19-3807 06-03-17
19-5304                 08-06-11
19-5305                 08-06-11
                        08-05-09;
Title 20, Chapter 5     08-06-05;
                        08-06-09
23-105(a)               08-07-01
23-105(b)               08-07-01
25-2302                 08-03-19
25-2312                 08-03-21
25-2801 et seq.         08-03-03
Title 25, Chapter 35    08-03-23
25-3506                 08-03-23
25-3507                 08-03-23
Title 27                11-05-04
33-202                  08-06-05
Title 39, Chapter 26    08-13-09
39-2602                 08-13-09
Title 39, Chapter 41    12-01-21
39-4116                 12-01-21
39-5702                 08-01-29
Title 41, Chapter 2     08-13-01
41-253(1)               08-13-09
Title 44, Chapter 13    06-05-10
44-2201(2)              12-15-09
46-1020 through 46-1024 12-15-01
Title 49                09-01-01
Title 49, Chapter 1     09-07-02
49-102                  09-07-02
Title 49, Chapter 4     09-07-02
49-410                  09-07-12
49-410(4)               09-07-12
49-410(8)               09-07-12
49-526                  09-01-11
Title 49, Chapter 9     09-07-02
49-1316                 09-19-03
49-1802                 09-01-11
50-201                  06-03-03
50-205                  03-03-01
50-206                  03-03-03
50-208                  03-15-07
50-222                  11-01-03
Title 50, Chapter 3     03-05-09;
                        09-19-05
50-301                  08-05-03;
                        09-19-05
                        01-01-05;
                        04-01-31;
                        04-05-07;
                        04-07-33;
                        04-17-25;
                        05-09-01;
                        06-03-03;
50-302                  08-01-15;
                        08-01-27;
                        08-03-03;
                        08-05-03;
                        08-06-11;
                        12-05-09;
                        12-07-17;
                        12-13-05;
                        12-15-05
                        01-13-01;
                        04-11-03;
                        04-19-15;
                        08-01-25;
50-302(1)               08-03-07;
                        08-03-19;
                        08-03-25;
                        08-03-27;
                        13-01-07
50-304                  08-03-03
50-307                  06-03-03
50-308                  07-13-01
50-312                  05-09-01
50-313                  05-09-01;
                        09-19-05
50-314                  09-19-05
50-319                  08-03-03
50-333                  12-15-01
50-334                  07-11-05;
                        08-03-03
50-701                  08-05-03
50-707                  02-01-03
50-1008                 07-11-05;
                        08-09-05
50-1013                 01-03-01;
                        04-09-07
50-1029                 04-05-03
Title 50, Chapter 13    11-01-02;
                        11-01-04
50-1303                 11-04-05
50-1403                 01-13-01
50-1901 et seq.         02-13-03
Title 50, Chapter 27    02-33-01
50-2708                 02-33-03
54-2601 et seq.         12-05-01
54-2606                 12-05-01
Title 55, Chapter 15    11-01-03
55-2201 through 55-2210 09-19-09
Title 55, Chapter 26    08-01-25
55-2604                 08-01-25
59-401                  03-01-01
63-604                  12-01-21
63-1311                 05-09-01
63-1311A                05-09-01
63-2303                 06-03-07
Title 67, Chapter 52    04-07-07;
                        06-03-07
67-1075                 03-15-07
Title 67, Chapter 65    02-37-05
Title 67, Chapter 23    02-19-05
67-2345                 02-01-07
67-3008                 06-05-07
Title 67, Chapter 46    02-17-05
67-5201 et seq.         08-13-09;
                        12-19-13
Title 67, Chapter 65    11-01-02;
                        11-02-03
67-6504                 02-15-01
67-6509                 13-03-09
67-6518                 12-15-01;
                        13-03-05
67-6520                 11-01-02
67-6526                 11-01-03
67-6535                 12-15-07
74-206                  02-32-04
                        
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
913      7-6-1962    03-01-01;
                     03-01-03
1028     5-4-1964    08-01-15
1048     8-2-1965    03-05-01
1083     9-6-1966    08-01-05
1118     12-4-1967   03-03-05;
                     03-05-09
1143     11-4-1968   07-01-03;
                     07-01-07
1153     2-3-1969    09-03-01
1158     3-17-1969   08-01-07
                     04-09-01;
1159     3-17-1969   04-09-03;
                     04-09-09
                     09-05-03;
1166     6-16-1969   09-05-05;
                     09-05-13
1188     3-16-1970   03-05-09
1217     5-17-1971   08-01-15
1219     5-17-1971   08-01-15
1265     6-5-1972    08-01-09
1276     7-17-1972   01-09-03
1329     5-20-1974   09-17-07
1338     9-17-1974   09-17-35
1357     5-6-1975    04-09-03
1376     4-20-1976   02-15-03
1418     3-1-1977    05-03-03
1455     2-7-1978    02-15-01
1467     5-2-1978    05-01-05
1482     6-20-1978   05-01-03
1492     6-20-1978   06-01-19
1494     6-20-1978   02-15-05
1499     6-20-1978   01-01-05
                     07-01-01;
1588     11-25-1980  07-01-05;
                     07-01-09—
                     07-01-13
                     04-01-01—
                     04-01-05;
                     04-01-09;
1618     10-12-1982  04-01-11;
                     04-01-21—
                     04-01-25;
                     04-01-29;
                     04-01-31
1640     3-1-1983    12-03-01;
                     12-03-03
1704     8-5-1983    07-01-01
1656     8-31-1983   03-01-05
1703     8-5-1985    07-01-01
1711     10-14-1985  03-03-03
1712     10-21-1985  12-05-07
                     12-07-01;
1713     10-21-1985  12-07-09—
                     12-07-15
1762     12-7-1987   01-11-03
1763     12-7-1987   03-07-01—
                     03-07-05
1766     12-7-1987   03-17-01—
                     03-17-05
1767     12-7-1987   03-19-01—
                     03-19-05
                     12-01-13;
1771     2-2-1988    12-01-15;
                     12-01-19
1776     3-21-1988   12-05-03
1777     3-21-1988   12-07-05
1779     4-18-1988   07-07-01;
                     07-07-03
                     06-21-01—
                     06-21-05;
1788     9-19-1988   06-21-09—
                     06-21-15;
                     06-21-19
1801     2-6-1989    04-03-01—
                     04-03-13
1830     9-25-1989   02-01-03
1825     10-2-1989   03-05-05
                     05-01-01;
1834     11-6-1989   05-01-03;
                     05-01-11
1837     1-2-1990    02-01-07
1844     3-5-1990    08-13-03;
                     08-13-17
1847     4-2-1990    08-01-13
1867     9-4-1990    02-15-01
1897     5-6-1991    01-03-01
                     02-25-01;
1898     5-6-1991    02-25-03;
                     02-25-05;
                     02-25-07
1899     5-6-1991    09-05-01
                     06-07-01—
                     06-07-11;
1916     11-4-1991   06-07-15;
                     06-07-17;
                     06-07-25—
                     06-07-39
1918     11-4-1991   01-05-01—
                     01-05-23
                     04-01-09;
1940     3-16-1992   04-01-13—
                     04-01-19;
                     04-01-27
                     05-09-01;
1945     5-4-1992    05-09-02;
                     05-09-04—
                     05-09-08
1979     3-15-1993   09-17-03—
                     09-17-13
1990     8-16-1993   01-05-13
                     04-07-03;
                     04-07-09;
1997     9-7-1993    04-07-25;
                     04-07-29—
                     04-07-35;
                     04-07-41
                     08-07-01—
1999     9-7-1993    08-07-05;
                     08-07-09
2023     2-22-1994   02-15-01
2030     6-20-1994   02-15-05
2064     1-17-1995   04-05-01—
                     04-05-12
2068     1-17-1995   08-15-01
2112     10-2-1995   07-01-09
2109     11-6-1995   08-13-19
2152     6-3-1996    08-05-01—
                     08-05-11
2188     3-17-1997   01-07-01
                     08-06-01;
2196     8-18-1997   08-06-03;
                     08-06-07—
                     08-06-11
                     06-05-05;
2206     10-6-1997   06-05-09;
                     06-05-13;
                     06-05-15
2219     1-5-1998    Title 3, Chapter 9
2234     5-18-1998   02-01-07
2253     10-19-1998  06-05-08
2335     9-5-2000    Title 7, Chapter 5
2348     10-2-2000   06-03-01—
                     06-03-23
2408     1-22-2002   06-07-19;
                     06-07-21
2424     6-3-2002    08-09-01—
                     08-09-12
2437     10-21-2002  Title 4, Chapter 13
2451     12-16-2002  12-01-04
2453     12-16-2002  08-13-03;
                     08-13-17
                     07-13-01;
2456     1-21-2003   07-13-02;
                     07-13-05;
                     07-13-06
                     04-01-15;
2465     7-21-2003   04-05-09;
                     07-01-09
2466     7-21-2003   05-09-02;
                     05-09-03
                     13-03-01—
2489     3-1-2004    13-03-09;
                     13-03-11—
                     13-03-17
2504     7-6-2004    04-17-01—
                     04-17-25
                     04-01-09;
2558     10-17-2005  04-07-35;
                     07-01-09
2568     10-17-2005  08-19-01—
                     08-19-04
2595     4-17-2006   08-21-01—
                     08-21-07
                     01-01-05;
                     04-01-31;
                     04-05-07;
2669     2-20-2007   04-17-25;
                     08-01-15;
                     08-06-11;
                     12-05-09;
                     12-07-17
                     12-01-03;
                     12-01-05;
                     12-01-07;
                     12-01-15;
2673     4-3-2007    12-01-23;
                     12-01-25;
                     12-05-03;
                     12-07-03;
                     12-07-05;
                     12-13-04
                     08-13-03;
2678     4-16-2007   08-13-11;
                     08-13-15;
                     08-13-19
2685     5-7-2007    01-05-05
2670     6-4-2007    06-09-01—
                     06-09-05
2701     9-17-2007   02-01-05;
                     03-05-03
2716     12-3-2007   12-13-03;
                     12-13-05
2713     12-17-2007  09-01-11
                     Title 8, Chapter 11;
2717     12-17-2007  08-13-05;
                     Title 8, Chapter 17
2720     12-17-2007  04-05-07
2730     2-4-2008    01-03-03
                     04-07-07;
                     04-07-17;
                     04-07-21;
2751     6-16-2008   04-07-23;
                     04-07-27;
                     04-07-29;
                     04-07-33;
                     04-07-37
                     06-05-03;
2749     8-18-2008   06-05-05;
                     06-15-01
2759     8-18-2008   08-01-27
2760     8-18-2008   12-01-05
2761     8-18-2008   09-15-05
2773     11-3-2008   06-07-13
2777     11-17-2008  06-05-05
2776     12-15-2008  02-15-01
                     06-03-07;
                     06-07-23;
2780     1-5-2009    06-07-35;
                     06-21-07;
                     06-21-17
2781     1-5-2009    Title 6, Chapter 17;
                     Title 6, Chapter 19
2782     1-5-2009    02-11-01;
                     02-11-03
                     11-01-01—
                     11-01-04;
                     11-02-01;
                     11-02-03;
                     11-03-01—
                     11-03-05;
2768     4-20-2009   11-04-01—
                     11-04-06;
                     11-05-01—
                     11-05-04;
                     11-06-01;
                     11-06-02;
                     11-07-01—
                     11-07-03
2794     7-20-2009   12-17-01—
                     12-17-07
                     12-01-17;
                     12-01-25;
2799     7-20-2009   12-11-01—
                     12-11-13;
                     12-11-17—
                     12-11-21
2786     8-17-2009   Title 4, Chapter 15
2805     11-2-2009   Title 5, Chapter 5;
                     08-01-09
2808     11-2-2009   09-19-01—
                     09-19-13
                     11-01-02;
                     11-01-03;
                     11-02-01;
2811     11-2-2009   11-02-03;
                     11-03-02;
                     11-03-05;
                     11-04-02—
                     11-04-07
2814     12-7-2009   12-07-13
2827     5-3-2010    12-01-11
                     04-01-03;
                     04-01-07;
2831     5-17-2010   04-01-09;
                     04-05-04;
                     04-05-07
                     05-07-02—
2828     6-21-2010   05-07-10;
                     12-01-09
                     06-07-05;
2842     8-16-2010   06-07-13;
                     06-07-31
                     06-05-07;
2850     12-6-2010   06-05-10;
                     06-05-11
                     02-15-07;
2852     12-20-2010  12-01-21;
                     12-19-01—
                     12-19-13
2862     1-18-2011   12-01-17
2861     2-22-2011   02-19-01—
                     02-19-07
                     03-03-01;
                     03-11-01—
2871     3-7-2011    03-11-05;
                     03-23-01—
                     03-23-07
2874     3-21-2011   06-07-13
                     04-09-01—
2873     4-4-2011    04-09-05;
                     04-09-09—
                     04-09-13
                     11-05-03;
2875     5-16-2011   12-15-01—
                     12-15-05
2877     6-20-2011   07-13-03
2880     8-1-2011    06-05-01;
                     06-05-10
                     08-03-01;
                     08-03-03;
2886     11-21-2011  08-03-07—
                     08-03-17;
                     08-03-21—
                     08-03-29
2887     11-21-2011  01-13-01;
                     01-13-03
2884     12-5-2011   13-01-01—
                     13-01-07
2889     12-5-2011   04-05-10;
                     05-09-03
2899     2-21-2012   02-33-01;
                     02-33-03
2901     2-21-2012   04-11-01;
                     04-11-03
                     12-05-05;
2910     5-21-2012   12-07-07;
                     12-11-15;
                     12-13-06
2914     7-16-2012   08-01-25
2905     9-4-2012    02-17-01—
                     02-17-17
2915     9-17-2012   06-05-10
2913     10-15-2012  07-11-01—
                     07-11-07
                     04-19-01;
                     04-19-07-01;
                     04-19-07-05;
2921     12-3-2012   04-19-07-07;
                     04-19-07-11;
                     04-19-13;
                     04-19-17;
                     04-19-19
                     02-17-06;
                     04-19-07;
                     04-19-07-03;
                     04-19-07-09;
                     04-19-09;
2923     4-15-2013   04-19-11;
                     04-19-15;
                     Title 7, Chapter 9;
                     07-11-05;
                     08-06-05;
                     12-15-03
2924     4-15-2013   11-01-03;
                     11-01-04
2940     7-1-2013    02-21-01
                     08-03-05;
                     08-03-09;
2950     11-18-2013  08-03-11;
                     08-03-19—
                     08-03-23
                     06-03-07;
                     08-13-01;
2951     11-18-2013  08-13-07;
                     12-01-21;
                     12-05-01
                     07-01-01;
2958     3-3-2014    Title 7, Chapter 3;
                     07-11-01
2971     6-16-2014   04-09-05;
                     06-21-15
2975     8-18-2014   12-13-01
2979     12-1-2014   12-01-15
2983     12-15-2014  11-02-03
2993     3-2-2015    08-01-25
2994     4-6-2015    07-13-04
3003     6-1-2015    06-05-07;
                     06-05-10
3001     6-15-2015   08-03-23
3002     6-15-2015   07-11-05
3020     11-16-2015  04-17-09;
                     13-03-09
3021     11-16-2015  12-01-21
                     12-01-15;
                     12-01-21;
3044     3-7-2016    12-05-05;
                     12-07-07;
                     12-13-02;
                     12-13-06
3043     3-21-2016   08-01-11
3047     3-21-2016   02-17-04
3046     4-18-2016   08-01-29
3061     6-20-2016   06-07-35
3076     12-5-2016   06-23-01
3084     2-6-2017    Title 6, Chapter 11
3083     4-17-2017   02-37-01—
                     02-37-05
3104     8-7-2017    03-01-05
                     05-07-01—
3110     9-18-2017   05-07-04;
                     05-07-06—
                     05-07-10
                     04-09-01;
3122     12-18-2017  04-09-03;
                     04-09-09
3127     12-18-2017  12-01-01;
                     12-01-21
3126     1-16-2018   02-17-10;
                     02-17-11
3094     4-2-2018    04-19-15
                     06-07-35;
                     06-23-01;
3157     7-2-2018    06-23-02;
                     08-07-07;
                     08-07-09
                     08-03-05;
3166     8-6-2018    08-03-11;
                     08-03-17;
                     08-03-27
3171     8-20-2018   07-11-05;
                     12-19-13
3188     3-4-2019    02-09-01—
                     02-09-05
3201     3-4-2019    08-03-25
3207     3-4-2019    12-15-01—
                     12-15-11
                     06-05-01;
                     06-05-03;
3222     7-1-2019    06-05-07;
                     06-05-08;
                     06-05-10;
                     06-05-17
3223     7-15-2019   03-01-05
3230     8-19-2019   06-07-35
3222-A   9-3-2019    06-05-07;
                     06-05-08
3263     3-16-2020   02-01-03
3286     7-20-2020   08-01-30
3309     12-7-2020   08-07-07
                     08-13-01;
                     08-13-07;
                     08-13-09;
                     12-01-01;
3305     12-21-2020  12-01-21;
                     12-01-27;
                     12-09-01;
                     12-09-03;
                     12-13-01
3321     1-19-2021   03-05-09
3322     4-5-2021    03-05-01
3328     5-3-2021    11-02-03
3347     5-17-2021   12-17-02—
                     12-17-07
3361     8-2-2021    03-05-09
3364     8-16-2021   04-07-01—
                     04-07-41
3365     8-16-2021   03-01-05
                     04-19-07;
                     04-19-07-01;
                     04-19-07-03;
3384     12-6-2021   04-19-07-15;
                     04-19-07-17;
                     04-19-11;
                     04-19-15
3379     12-20-2021  11-03-02
3390     12-20-2021  06-07-35
                     02-09-05;
3405     3-21-2022   02-19-05;
                     02-25-03
3408     3-21-2022   03-22-01—
                     03-22-05
3409     4-4-2022    02-01-07
3422     6-20-2022   02-09-05
3437     8-4-2022    06-07-13
                     01-03-01;
                     01-03-03;
                     03-01-03;
3447     8-18-2022   03-15-01—
                     03-15-13;
                     03-16-01—
                     03-16-09;
                     04-09-07
3448     8-18-2022   02-01-07
3456     9-1-2022    11-04-07
3449     9-15-2022   11-01-02
3459     10-20-2022  Title 2, Chapter 29
3431     11-15-2022  08-13-09
3467     11-15-2022  01-07-02
                     01-13-01;
3410     12-6-2022   04-11-01;
                     04-11-03;
                     07-13-05
3470     12-20-2022  02-15-01
3492     3-7-2023    02-06-01;
                     02-06-03
                     03-03-01;
3495     4-4-2023    03-12-01;
                     03-12-03
3498     4-18-2023   04-09-09
3502     4-18-2023   08-07-07
3496     5-2-2023    06-05-08
3508     6-6-2023    02-32-01—
                     02-32-05
3515     6-20-2023   12-17-05
3516     7-5-2023    03-03-01;
                     03-03-03
3521     7-18-2023   06-23-01
3523     8-1-2023    03-01-05
                     06-21-01;
                     06-21-05—
3530     9-5-2023    06-21-09;
                     06-21-15;
                     06-21-17
3531     9-5-2023    06-07-11
3532     9-5-2023    02-17-04
3513     9-19-2023   04-09-05;
                     04-09-11
3539     10-3-2023   06-23-01
3540     10-3-2023   02-27-01—
                     02-27-11
3541     10-17-2023  02-17-04
3542     10-17-2023  02-37-04
3540-A   11-21-2023  02-27-01—
                     02-27-09
3570     2-6-2024    06-23-02
                     11-01-02;
                     11-01-03;
3576     3-19-2024   11-02-01;
                     11-02-03—
                     11-02-06;
                     11-03-02
3585     3-19-2024   03-22-05
3582     3-20-2024   06-21-03;
                     06-21-19
                     05-07-05;
3594     4-16-2024   05-07-08—
                     05-07-10
3602     5-7-2024    05-01-03
3604     6-18-2024   02-17-04
3609     6-18-2024   02-01-07
3608     7-2-2024    05-07-05
3617     8-5-2024    03-03-01
3618     8-5-2024    13-05-01—
                     13-05-09
3621     8-5-2024    06-01-12
3623     8-5-2024    13-03-10
3626     8-19-2024   02-17-04
3627     8-19-2024   02-37-02
3636     11-4-2024   07-13-03
3640     11-18-2024  03-03-01
3635     12-2-2024   Title 2, Chapter 31
3646     12-16-2024  Title 2, Chapter 35
3657     2-18-2025   02-38-01—
                     02-38-03
                     04-19-01;
                     04-19-05;
                     04-19-07;
                     04-19-07-01;
                     04-19-07-03;
3677     3-3-2025    04-19-07-09 -
                     04-19-07-17;
                     04-19-09—
                     04-19-15;
                     13-01-01—
                     13-01-07
                     08-09-01;
                     08-09-02;
3678     3-3-2025    08-09-05;
                     08-09-06;
                     08-09-08
                     11-01-03;
                     11-01-04;
3673     4-21-2025   11-02-02—
                     11-02-05;
                     11-03-02
3699     7-7-2025    06-07-13
3700     7-21-2025   04-09-07
3701     8-4-2025    03-03-01;
                     03-03-03
3702     8-18-2025   05-09-01
3713     10-20-2025  11-04-07
3738     2-17-2026   02-15-01
3747     3-16-2026   09-07-01—
                     09-07-14
                    
 
