MUNICIPAL CODE
of
NEW PLYMOUTH, IDAHO
1960
Code current through:
Ord. 439, passed June 2, 2026
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
***** PREFACE *****
         This code of the City of New Plymouth, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 439, passed June 2, 2026. Ordinances
of the City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code
to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
City office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code
has been amended, superseded or repealed.
               American Legal Publishing
               Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
 
***** ORDINANCE NO. 438 *****
 
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF NEW PLYMOUTH, A MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF THE STATE
OF IDAHO, REPEALING NEW PLYMOUTH CITY CODE TITLE XI (“ZONING”), CHAPTER 22
(“DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS”); AMENDING TITLE XI (“ZONING”), CHAPTER 18A
(“SPECIFIC STANDARDS”) BY ADDING A NEW SECTION 3 (“DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS”);
PROVIDING A SEVERABILITY CLAUSE; PROVIDING A REPEALER CLAUSE; AUTHORIZING
PUBLICATION BY SUMMARY; PROVIDING FOR CODIFICATION; AND ESTABLISHING AN
EFFECTIVE DATE.
 
WHEREAS, the City of New Plymouth has previously adopted a zoning ordinance
codified in Title XI, New Plymouth City Code (“NPCC”); and
 
WHEREAS, the City of New Plymouth desires to amend its zoning code to update
regulations relating to development agreements; and
 
WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of New Plymouth, Idaho, intends to adopt
the changes herein.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF NEW
PLYMOUTH, PAYETTE COUNTY, IDAHO, as follows:
 
Section 1: That the foregoing recitals are hereby incorporated into this
ordnance as if fully set forth herein.
 
Section 2: That Title XI (“Zoning”), Chapter 22 (“Development Agreements”), New
Plymouth City Code be, and the same hereby is repealed.
 
Section 3: That Title XI (“Zoning”), New Plymouth City Code be, and the same
hereby is amended by adding a new section, to be known and designated as 11-
18A-3 (“Development Agreements”), and to read as follows:
 
11-18A-3:   Development Agreements:
 
(A)   Purpose: The purpose of this Chapter is to implement the City’s authority
under Idaho Code §67-6511A and to establish procedures and standards for the
creation of development agreements in order to further the orderly development
of the City.
 
1.   Intent: Development agreements are intended to:
 
(a)   Coordinate provision of public facilities and services with new
development;
 
(b)   Establish conditions, terms, restrictions, and requirements for
development;
 
(c)   Provide certainty to the City and to developers regarding permitted uses,
densities, phasing, and necessary improvements;
 
(d)   Implement the City’s Comprehensive Plan and land use regulations,
including annexation, zoning, and subdivision approvals; and
 
(e)   Allow, in limited circumstances, for site-specific variations from City
standards where justified and consistent with public health, safety, and
welfare.
 
2.   Development agreements authorized by this Chapter may be used in
connection with legislative actions such as annexations and rezoning, and with
quasi-judicial or administrative actions such as conditional use permits and
subdivision approvals, consistent with Idaho law.
 
(B)   Applicability:
 
1.   A development agreement may be required by the City through application of
the property owner, on recommendation of the Administrator or Commission, or
required by the Council as a condition of approval in connection with the
following:
 
(a)   Annexation and/or initial zoning or rezone;
 
(b)   Conditional use permit;
 
(c)   Combination plat;
 
(d)   Preliminary plat;
 
(e)   Approval of construction drawings and public improvement plans; and/or
 
(f)   Final plat.
 
2.   Consolidated Processing: To the extent practicable, any proposed
development agreement shall be processed together with the associated land use
application(s) so that public hearings may be consolidated, consistent with
Idaho Code §67-6509 and related provisions.
 
(C)   Form of Development Agreement Application: All applications for
development agreements shall be in a form as required by the Administrator. No
application will be accepted by the Administrator which does not include the
following:
 
1.   An affidavit or sworn statement by the owner(s) of the property agreeing
that the use of the property shall be subject to the uses set out in the
proposed development agreement or as the agreement may be later modified.
 
2.   A legal description and/or map of the subject property(ies) subject to the
agreement.
 
3.   The specific use or uses of the property, zoning, and densities upon which
the development agreement is sought.
 
4.   For development agreements associated with a preliminary plat application,
the information required by NPCC §12-3-2(D).
 
5.   For development agreements associated with an annexation, rezone,
standalone conditional use permit, or other application requiring a development
agreement, a concept plan, which shall include at a minimum, three (3) site
plans and one (1) eight and one-half inch by eleven inch (8 ½” x 11”) reduction
showing:
 
(a)   Existing structures which will remain, labeled as to existing and
proposed uses.
 
(b)   Building footprint, height, number of stories, proposed uses (office,
retail, restaurant, etc.), and square footage of proposed structures. If
residential, overall density and number of dwelling units per building (if
single-family residential, information on proposed structures is not
necessary).
 
(c)   North arrow.
 
(d)   Scale.
 
(e)   Property boundary.
 
(f)   Name(s) of applicant, owner(s) (if different than applicant), plan
preparers and project.
 
(g)   Size of project.
 
(h)   Existing vegetation, labeled as to remain or be removed.
 
(i)   Existing and generalized proposed grades for hillside developments.
 
(k)   Parking areas with total number of parking spaces shown.
 
(l)   Locations and widths of right-of-way, easements, canals, ditches, and
property lines.
 
(m)   Drainage features.
 
(n)   Conceptual landscape plan (landscape areas, sizes and heights).
 
6.   The time period for which the agreement is requested to be valid,
including the time period with which the development or use must commence and
the time period within which the development and the terms of the agreement are
to be completed.
 
7.   A statement that failure to comply with all commitments in the approved
development agreement shall be deemed a consent to rezone the property to the
pre-existing zone, or in the case of an initial zone at annexation, a zone
deemd appropriate by the Council.
 
8.   If the development agreement is being requested by the applicant, as
opposed to having been required by the Council, a statement must be included
that all time limits required by this Code are waived.
 
9.   A fee as set by resolution of the Council shall accompany the application.
 
(D)   Required Contents of Development Agreements: Each development agreement
shall, at a minimum, include:
 
1.   Names of all parties and a legal description and/or map of the property
subject to the agreement;
 
2.   The approved land uses, densities, applicable zoning district(s), and key
development standards;
 
3.   A description and schedule for required public improvements, dedications,
and any development impact or proportionate share contributions;
 
4.   Any phasing of development and the timing or triggers for subsequent
approvals or improvements;
 
5.   The term of the agreement, including commencement date, expiration date,
and any provisions for extensions;
 
6.   Procedures for amendment, assignment, and termination of the agreement,
consistent with NPCC and Idaho law;
 
7.   Provisions for enforcement, including remedies in the event of default and
the City’s authority to withhold permits or certificates of occupancy for non-
compliance, consistent with NPCC and Idaho law;
 
8.   A statement of consistency with the City’s Comprehensive Plan, applicable
ordinances, and conditions of approval; and
 
9.   Provisions for recording the agreement and its effect as a covenant
running with the land, binding successors and assigns, to the extent permitted
by law.
 
(E)   Approval:
 
1.   Administration Defined: For purposes of this Chapter, “Administration”
means and includes the City Clerk, Administrator, Public Works Director, City
Engineer, and City Attorney, or their designee, acting within the scope of
their assigned duties as set forth in this Code or City policies.
 
2.   Authority: Administration or an individual member of Administration shall
have the following authority
 
(a)   The Administrator shall accept and process applications for development
agreements and amendments;
 
(b)   The Administrator shall serve as the primary contact for applicants and
shall coordinate with Administration and with applicants regarding the terms of
proposed development agreements and amendments;
 
(c)   Administration shall coordinate with the Mayor regarding negotiation
direction and key terms, as needed;
 
(d)   Administration shall review development agreements for consistency with
the Comprehensive Plan, zoning ordinance, City standards, and conditions of
approval;
 
(e)   Prepare draft development agreements, amendments, and staff reports for
the Commission and Council;
 
(f)   Request technical reports, engineering studies, or other submittals
reasonably necessary to evaluate a proposed development agreement, including
any proposed deviations from City standards.
 
3.   Commission Review:
 
(a)   In the event of a determination by the Commission that a development
agreement should be entered into, the Commission shall retain jurisdiction of
the matter, defer consideration of the land use application and set a time
limit for submittal of the development agreement. The Commission shall then
proceed as specified in this section.
 
(b)   The Commission shall review and make recommendations to the Council
concerning the development agreement and amendments thereto in accordance with
the requirements of the public hearing procedures in Chapter 18 of this Title.
 
4.   Council Approval:
 
(a)   In the event of a determination by the Council that a development
agreement should be entered into, the Council shall remand the matter back to
the Commission for submittal of the development agreement and review thereof,
consistent with the requirements of this Chapter. The Council may provide
direction to the Commission on remand. The Commission shall then proceed as
specified in this Chapter.
 
(b)   The Council may require a development agreement be executed as a
condition of annexation or rezoning or other land use approval as described in
this Chapter if, in the opinion of the Council, the requested rezone of other
land use application does not satisfy the requirements set forth in the zoning
ordinance for approval, but the particular project or use contemplated has a
value to the community that would justify the use of a development agreement. A
development agreement may not allow a use on the parcel(s) that is not an
allowed use in the requested zone.
 
(c)   Development agreements may be approved by the Council only after
conducting a public hearing following the notice and hearing provisions set
forth in Chapter 18 of this Title.
 
(d)   The Council may add conditions, terms, duties, or obligations to the
development agreement following the recommendation of the Commission if agreed
to by the applicant. However, if such changes constitute a material change,
then a public hearing must be held by the Council before such material changes
may be made.
 
5.   Stay of Proceedings: In the event that the Commission or Council
determines a development agreement is required during the approval process, all
time limits required by this Title may be stayed upon affirmative vote of the
Commission or Council.
 
6.   Conditions of Approval: The terms of an approved development agreement
shall be deemed conditions of approval of any associated annexation, zoning
decision, conditional use permit, combination plat, preliminary plat,
construction drawings, and/or final plat, as applicable. Failure to comply with
a development agreement may be grounds for revocation, modification, or
enforcement action under this Title and Idaho law.
 
7.   Construction Drawings and Final Plat:
 
(a)   The City may require a new development agreement or amendment to an
existing development agreement as a condition of approving construction
drawings if Administration determines that:
 
(i)   A variation from the adopted City public works, engineering, or design
standards is necessary or appropriate due to site-specific conditions; or
 
(ii)   Clarification, refinement, or additional commitments are needed to
implement conditions imposed at annexation, rezone, preliminary plat, or other
prior approvals.
 
(b)   The City may require a new development agreement or amendment to an
existing development agreement as a condition of approving the final plat if
Administration determines that:
 
(i)    Additional conditions, phasing provisions, or improvement-timing
requirements are needed to ensure compliance with City standards and prior
approvals; or
 
(ii)   Minor variations from standards or prior approvals are necessary to
address final engineering or surveying conditions.
 
(F)   Relationship to Other Regulations:
 
1.   A development agreement shall be consistent with the City’s Comprehensive
Plan, this Title and Title XII, New Plymouth City Code, except where specific
deviations are expressly authorized by the Council in the agreement and are
within the City’s legal authority under Idaho law.
 
2.   In the event of a conflict between the terms of a duly approved and
recorded development agreement and otherwise applicable development standards,
the terms of the development agreement shall control to the extent:
 
(a)   The deviation is expressly stated and justified in the agreement; and
 
(b)   The deviation is lawful and consistent with Idaho law.
 
3.   Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to limit the City’s police
power or its authority to adopt ordinances of general applicability necessary
to protect public health, safety, and welfare, subject to any vested rights
created by a lawfully approved development agreement.
 
(G)   Recordation: Following approval of a development agreement by the
Council, the development agreement shall be recorded in the office of the
county recorder at the expense of the applicant. The development agreement, and
all conditions, terms, duties, or obligations included therein, shall run with
the land and shall be considered continuing obligations of the owner or
subsequent owner and each other person acquiring an interest in the property.
 
(H)   Duty to Comply: An owner, subsequent owner, and each other person
acquiring an interest in property that is restricted by a development agreement
adopted pursuant to this Chapter shall comply with the terms, conditions,
obligations, and duties contained in the development agreement.
 
(I)   Modification: Except as provided in this section for minor modifications,
a recorded development agreement may be modified by the Council only after
complying with the notice and public hearing provisions set forth in Chapter 18
of this Title.
 
1.   Minor Modifications:
 
(a)   Purpose: The purpose of this subsection is to allow Administration to
approve minor modifications and limited deviations within development
agreements from City development and public works standards, and from approved
plans, when such changes are technical in nature and do not warrant return to
the Council.
 
(b)   Administrative Authority: Administration is authorized to approve minor
modifications and administrative deviations in connection with:
 
(i)   Review and approval of construction drawings and public improvement
plans;
 
(ii)   Final plat review and approval, to the extent final plat authority is
delegated by ordinance; and
 
(iii)   Implementation of an approved development agreement, preliminary plat,
conditional use permit, annexation, or rezone.
 
(c)   Criteria for Minor Modifications: A change may be treated as a minor
modification or administrative deviation only if Administration makes written
findings that:
 
(i)   The change does not increase the approved number of lots or dwelling
units;
 
(ii)   The change does not increase the building height beyond the maximum
allowed by the applicable zoning district;
 
(iii)   The change does not increase overall traffic generation or trip
intensity in a manner that materially affects the transportation system or
adopted mitigation measures;
 
(iv)   The change does not reduce approved open space, landscaping, or
buffering by more than three percent (3%) in area or width;
 
(v)   The change does not materially alter the location or function of major
public facilities such as arterial or collector streets, regional stormwater
facilities, or trunk water/sewer lines;
 
(vi)   The change does not conflict with any explicit condition imposed by the
Council; and
 
(vii)   The change remains consistent with the Comprehensive Plan and the
overall intent of the original approval.
 
(d)   Technical and Engineering Deviations from City Standards:
 
(i)   Administration may approve deviations from adopted City public works,
engineering, or design standards, including but not limited to, street
sections, utility alignments, grading and drainage design when:
 
(1)   The deviation is supported by sound engineering judgment and, where
appropriate, sealed plans;
 
(2)   The deviation is necessary or appropriate due to topography, existing
infrastructure, environmental constraints, or similar site-specific conditions;
and
 
(3)   The deviation provides equal or better protection of public health,
safety, and welfare compared to strict application of the standard.
 
(ii)   Such deviations shall be documented:
 
(1)   In writing on the approved construction drawings or in an engineering
review letter signed by the City Engineer; or
 
(2)   By an administrative amendment to an existing development agreement, if
the deviation needs to be recorded as a covenant running with the land.
 
2.   Documentation and Appeals:
 
(a)   All administrative approvals of minor modifications or deviations shall
be documented in writing and maintained in the project file, including a brief
description of the change and the findings supporting the decision.
 
(b)   Any person aggrieved by an administrative decision under this section may
appeal in accordance with the appeal procedures set forth elsewhere in this
Code. An appeal shall stay the effectiveness of the administrative modification
or deviation until the appeal is resolved, unless the appeal body determines
that a stay would pose an immediate threat to public health, safety, or
welfare.
 
3.   When Council Action is Required: A proposed change to a development
agreement shall not be treated as a minor modification or administrative
deviation and must be returned to the Council (with Commission recommendation
where required) if it:
 
(a)   Changes the zoning district or approved land use(s);
 
(b)   Increases density beyond that authorized by the zoning district or
development agreement;
 
(c)   Adds or removes major access points or materially changes external
traffic patterns;
 
(d)   Substantially alters the phasing or timing of major public improvements
in a way that could affect levels of public safety; or
 
(e)   Materially conflicts with or weakens a condition of approval adopted by
the Council.
 
(J)   Termination:
 
1.   A development agreement may be terminated by the Council for failure to
comply with the commitments expressed in the development agreement. Such
termination shall take place after a public hearing on the termination at which
time testimony shall be taken to establish noncompliance with the conditions,
terms, obligations or duties contained within the development agreement. The
public hearing shall follow the notice and hearing procedures set forth in
Chapter 18 of this Title.
 
2.   Upon termination of the development agreement, the property shall revert
to the zone applicable to the property prior to the adoption of the development
agreement or application for rezoning designation change, and any permits
issued related to the development agreement shall be null and void and of no
further force or effect. All uses of the property which are not consistent with
the subsequently applied zone following termination of the development
agreement shall cease. The owner of the property may apply for a conditional
use of the property if such use is a conditional use within the subsequently
applied zone.
 
(K)   Development Agreement Enforcement: Development agreements may be enforced
by the city through specific enforcement, injunctive relief, damages, or
criminal penalty for violation of this Section. The foregoing enforcement
options available to the City shall not be deemed exclusive.
 
Section 4: Severability Clause. This Ordinance is hereby declared to be
severable. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this
Ordinance is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, such
decision shall not affect the remaining portions of this Ordinance and shall
continue in full force and effect and shall be read to carry out the purpose(s)
of the Ordinance before the declaration of partial invalidity. The City Council
of the City of New Plymouth hereby declares that it would have passed this
Ordinance and each section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase thereof
irrespective of the fact that one or more sections, subsections, sentences,
clauses or phrases be declared invalid.   
 
Section 5: Repealer Clause. All previous ordinances, resolutions, orders or
parts thereof in conflict herewith are hereby repealed, rescinded and annulled.
 
Section 6: Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect and be in force
from and after its passage, approval and publication as required by law.
 
Section 7: Publication by Summary. In lieu of publication of the entire
Ordinance, a summary thereof in compliance with Idaho Code §50-901A may be
published. The summary of the Ordinance, attached hereto as Exhibit A, is
hereby approved as to both form and content.
 
Section 8: Codification Clause. The City Clerk is instructed to immediately
forward this ordinance to the codifier of the official municipal code for
proper revision of the code.
 
PASSED by the City Council and APPROVED by the Mayor of the City of New
Plymouth, Payette County, Idaho, on this 16th day of June 2026.
 
 
                              
               Tyson Flannery, Mayor
 
            
 
Attest:                  
               Marianne Gatchell, City Clerk
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE PROVIDING FOR THE ADOPTION AND OFFICIAL AND CONTINUOUS USE OF THE
MUNICIPAL CODE OF THE CITY OF NEW PLYMOUTH, IDAHO.
IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF NEW PLYMOUTH,
that:
Section 1. From and after the date of passage of this Ordinance the Municipal
Code of the City of New Plymouth, prepared by Sterling Codifiers and hereby
approved and accepted shall be the Official Code of all Ordinances of a general
and permanent character of the City.
Section 2. There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification, the
loose leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplemental service
whereby each newly adopted Ordinance of a general nature, amending, altering,
adding to, or deleting provisions of the Municipal Code is identified by the
proper catch line, and following preparation by Sterling Codifiers, is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies. Each such insertion shall
be made within thirty (30) days following the date of adoption by the Council,
and each new provision shall become effective upon such insertion.
Section 3. At least one (1) official copy of said official Municipal Code of
the City of New Plymouth shall at all times be on file and available for
inspection in the office of the Clerk.
This Ordinance passed by roll call vote of the City Council this fourth day of
January, 1960, and approved by the Mayor on this fourth day of January, 1960.
TITLE I
ADMINISTRATIVE
***** CHAPTER 1
ADOPTION OF OFFICIAL CODE *****
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Construction of Words
1-1-5: Definitions
1-1-6: Interpretations
1-1-7: Penalties
1-1-8: Liability of Officers
1-1-1: TITLE:
This compilation and codification of the general ordinances of the City of New
Plymouth is hereby declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official
Municipal Code of the City of New Plymouth. Any reference to the number of any
Section contained herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the
same under its appropriate Title heading, its Chapter heading, and its Section
heading, and to the general penalty clause relating thereto, as well as to the
Section itself, when reference is made in this Code by title in any legal
document.
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This Municipal Code of the City of New Plymouth, as hereby presented in printed
form, shall hereafter be received without further proof in all courts and in
all administrative tribunals of this State as the ordinances of a general and
permanent effect of the City.
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this Code shall set forth the Title, Chapter and Section
number of the Section or Sections to be amended, and this shall constitute a
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of the Municipal Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each copy of the
Municipal Code within thirty (30) days from the date of its final passage.
1-1-4: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any Section of this Municipal Code importing the plural
number is used, in describing or referring to any matters, parties, or persons,
any single matter, party, or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used.
When any subject matter, party, or person is referred to in this Municipal Code
by words importing the singular number only, or the masculine gender, several
matters, parties, or persons and females as well as males and bodies corporate
shall be deemed to be included. The word "person" shall be deemed to include
any "person, firm, association or corporation" or any organization of any kind.
The words, "written" and "in writing" may include printing. Provided, that
these rules of construction shall not be applied to any Section of the
Municipal Code which contains any express provision excluding such construction
or where the subject matter or content may be repugnant thereto.
1-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
The term "personal property" includes every description of money, goods,
chattels, effects, evidence of rights in action, and all written instruments by
which any pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created,
acknowledged, transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished, and
every right or interest therein.
The word "streets" includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways,
public squares, public places and sidewalks.
The word "owner" applied to a building or land shall include any part owner,
joint owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part
of such building or land.
The word "tenant" or "occupant" applied to a building or land shall include any
person who occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether
alone or with others.
Words prohibiting anything being done, except in accordance with a license or
permit or authority from a board or officer, shall be construed as giving such
board or officer power to license or permit or authorize such thing to be done.
The word "officer" shall include officers and boards in charge of departments
and members of such boards. Such reference as use of the word "City" shall mean
this Municipality. "Clerk," "Treasurer" or other officer titles used shall mean
City Clerk, City Treasurer of other City officer as the use may be applicable.
The term "wilfully" when applied to the intent with which an act is done or
omitted, implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the
omission referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to
injure another, or to acquire an advantage.
The term "neglect," "negligence," "negligent," and "negligently" imports a want
of such attention to the nature or probable consequences of the act or omission
as a prudent man ordinarily bestows in acting in his own concern.
The term "knowingly" imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which brings
the act or omission within the provisions of these ordinances. It does not
require any knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
1-1-6: INTERPRETATIONS:
In the determination of the provisions of each Section of the Municipal Code
the following rules shall be observed:
   (A)   Intent to Defraud: Whenever an intent to defraud is required in order
to constitute an offense, it shall be sufficient if an intent appears to
defraud any person.
   (B)   Liability of Employers and Agents: When the provisions of any Section
of the Municipal Code prohibit the commission of an act, not only the person
actually doing the prohibited act or omitting the directed act, but also the
employer and all other persons concerned with or in aiding or abetting the said
person shall be guilty of the offense described and liable to the penalty set
forth.
1-1-7: PENALTIES:
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of the official Municipal Code the prosecuting
officer may elect under which to proceed; but not more than one (1) recovery
shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided, that the
revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty
so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any Section or provision of the Municipal Code, and there shall be no
fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of the
general penalty clause shall apply and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during or on which a breach or violation occurs or
continues.
1-1-8: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of the official Municipal Code designating the duties of any
officer or employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee
liable for any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty,
unless the intention of the Council to impose such fine or penalty on such
officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the Section
creating the duty.
***** CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE *****
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Pending Suits
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the City passed prior to the adoption of this Code
are hereby repealed, except such as are referred to herein as being still in
force or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to
the saving clauses contained in the following Section), from which are excluded
the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed; tax levy ordinances;
appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
City; and all special ordinances.
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this Code or by virtue
of the preceding Section, excepting as this Code may contain provision for such
matters, in which case this Code shall be considered as amending such ordinance
or ordinances in respect of such provisions only.
1-2-3: PENDING SUITS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance,
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied
to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this or the preceding Section shall be construed as
abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of
the City herein repealed; or as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering
any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person,
firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the City under any ordinance or
provision thereof in force at the time of adoption of this Code.
***** CHAPTER 3
PENALTY *****
SECTION:
1-3-1: Criminal Penalty
1-3-2: Application
1-3-3: Infractions
1-3-1: CRIMINAL PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any ordinance of the City for which a
criminal penalty is imposed, may be fined in a sum not to exceed one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) for any offense and such person may be confined in the
Payette County Jail for a period of not more than six (6) months. Either or
both such fine and imprisonment may be imposed; and in addition thereto, any
person so convicted shall pay such costs as the court may assess. (Ord. 355, 1-
17-2017)
1-3-2: APPLICATION:
The penalty herein provided shall be applicable to every ordinance of the City
by which a person may be convicted of a crime which is designated as a
misdemeanor, the same as though it were a part of each and every separate
ordinance. Any person convicted of a violation of any ordinance of this City
for which a criminal penalty is imposed, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed for each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 355, 1-17-2017)
1-3-3: INFRACTIONS:
Any person who is convicted of an offense defined by either section 18-111 of
the Idaho Code or by any section of this Code as an infraction shall be guilty
of an infraction and shall be punished in accordance with section 18-113A of
the Idaho Code. (Ord. 355, 1-17-2017)
***** CHAPTER 4
DATUM PLANE *****
SECTION:
1-4-1: Official Base
1-4-2: Primal Bench Mark
1-4-3: Establishment of Elevations
1-4-1: OFFICIAL BASE:
The official City base or plane of reference for elevations in the City is
hereby fixed at a point ninety-nine and seventy-three one-hundredths feet
(99.73') below the top of the foundation of the Pioneer Block at the northeast
corner.
1-4-2: PRIMAL BENCH MARK:
The top of the bolt set in the concrete sidewalk at the northeast corner of the
City Hall is hereby declared to be the primal bench mark of the City and the
elevation thereof is one hundred feet (100') above City base.
1-4-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF ELEVATIONS:
All official elevations hereafter established in the City shall be described
with reference to their elevation as compared with the official base in feet
and decimal parts of a foot, no grade or official elevation shall be
established other than by ordinance and in the manner described in this
Chapter.
***** CHAPTER 5
ELECTIONS *****
SECTION:
1-5-1: Precinct
1-5-2: Hours Of Polling Places For City Elections
1-5-1: PRECINCT:
The city of New Plymouth is hereby declared one precinct, with one voting place
for city elections. (Ord. 85, 9-11-1967)
1-5-2: HOURS OF POLLING PLACES FOR CITY ELECTIONS:
The polls for all general and special city elections shall be open from eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. Mountain time and will remain open until eight o'clock (8:
00) P.M. Mountain time. (Ord. 324, 10-5-2009)
***** CHAPTER 6
SALARIES *****
SECTION:
1-6-1: Salaries Of Elective Officers
1-6-2: Salaries Of Appointive Officers
1-6-1: SALARIES OF ELECTIVE OFFICERS:
The salaries of the elected officers of the city shall be as follows: (Ord. 92,
9-4-1969, eff. 1-1-1970)
 
Mayor              $175.00 per month
Councilmen (each)  125.00 per month
 
(Ord. 158, 8-18-1983, eff. 1-1-1984)
1-6-2: SALARIES OF APPOINTIVE OFFICERS:
The salaries of all appointed officers and employees of the city shall be as
established and approved by recorded action of the council. (1960 Code)
***** CHAPTER 7
MAYOR *****
SECTION:
1-7-1: Duties
1-7-2: Contract
1-7-3: Reward
1-7-4: Pardons
1-7-5: Veto Power
1-7-6: Accounts of Officers
1-7-7: Police Power
1-7-8: May Require Aid
1-7-9: Other Powers
1-7-1: DUTIES:
The Mayor, the superintending and administrative officer of the Municipality,
shall devote so much of his time to the duties of his office as an efficient
and faithful discharge thereof may require. He shall preside at all meetings of
the Council and shall have a vote when the Council is equally divided, and call
special meetings of the Council when necessary. He shall appoint all officers
and employees of the Municipality, subject to the approval of the Council, and
have such other powers as the Council may prescribe. He shall from time to time
provide for the Council such information and recommend such measures as he may
deem beneficial to the Municipality. He shall examine the grounds of all
complaints against any officer of the Municipality to determine existence of a
violation or neglect of duty and report to the Council the evidence thereof, if
deemed sufficient for the removal of said officer. He shall require that every
officer, on the expiration of his term of office or resignation or removal,
deliver to his successor all assets belonging to such office. He shall perform
all other duties required and necessary for the efficient operation of the
business of the Municipality.
1-7-2: CONTRACT:
The Mayor is authorized and empowered to sign his name officially for and in
behalf of the Municipality on all contracts, documents and papers to which the
Municipality is a party, and to require that the conditions in any instrument
are faithfully performed. He may borrow money on the credit of the Municipality
when so authorized by the Council.
1-7-3: REWARD:
The Mayor, whenever he deems it expedient, is hereby empowered to offer a
reward not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the arrest and
conviction of any person charged with violating any of the provisions of this
Code.
1-7-4: PARDONS:
The Mayor is empowered to grant a pardon to any person imprisoned for a
violation of any of the provisions of this Code, and to remit so much of any
fine or forfeiture as in his judgment he may deem just and reasonable, and he
shall report such remittance or pardon to the Council at its next meeting.
1-7-5: VETO POWER:
The Mayor shall have power to veto or sign any ordinance passed by the Council
provided, that any ordinance vetoed by the Mayor may be passed over his veto by
a vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the members of the Council, and should the Mayor
neglect or refuse to sign any ordinance, the same shall become law without his
signature after the next regular meeting of the Council.
1-7-6: ACCOUNTS OF OFFICERS:
The Mayor shall have the power to require any officer of the Municipality to
exhibit his accounts or other papers and make reports to the Council in writing
on any subject or matter pertaining to the office.
1-7-7: POLICE POWER:
The Mayor shall have jurisdiction over all places within five (5) miles of the
Corporate Limits of the Municipality for the enforcement of any health or
quarantine ordinance and regulation and shall have jurisdiction in all matters,
excepting taxation, within one-half (1/2) mile of the Corporate Limits of the
Municipality.
1-7-8: MAY REQUIRE AID:
The Mayor is hereby authorized to call on every male inhabitant of the
Municipality over the age of eighteen (18) and under the age of fifty (50)
years to aid in enforcing the law.
1-7-9: OTHER POWERS:
The Mayor shall have all other powers provided by State Statute or by specific
provisions of this Code.
***** CHAPTER 8
THE COUNCIL *****
SECTION:
1-8-1: Duties
1-8-2: Ward Representation (Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
1-8-3: Vacancy; How Filled
1-8-4: How To Conduct Council Meeting
1-8-5: Elect President Of The Council
1-8-6: Time And Place Of Meeting
1-8-1: DUTIES:
Members of the Council, the legislative and policymaking branch of the
Municipality, shall devote so much of their time to the duties of their office
as an efficient and faithful discharge thereof may require. They shall attend
all meetings of the Council unless lawfully excused therefrom by the Mayor or
by a majority of the remaining members, and perform all duties which by the
nature of their office they should reasonably perform, such as the passing of
ordinances, resolutions and the investigation and study of work done for the
Municipality according to the committees upon which they may severally be
appointed by the Mayor. (1960 Code)
1-8-2: WARD REPRESENTATION:
(Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
1-8-3: VACANCY; HOW FILLED:
In the event an Office of Councilman shall become vacant, through death,
removal of residence, or for any other cause, the Mayor shall appoint, with the
approval of the Council, a resident of the ward to fill the unexpired portion
of the term to serve until the next general election, at which time the
unexpired term shall be filled by regular election. (1960 Code)
1-8-4: HOW TO CONDUCT COUNCIL MEETING:
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing rules and regulations
for the conduct of Council meetings, the book entitled "How to Conduct a
Municipal Council Meeting" prepared by the Idaho Municipal League, three (3)
copies of which shall be on file in the Office of the Clerk, and the same is
hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein. (1960
Code)
1-8-5: ELECT PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL:
At the time of taking office the Council shall elect one of its members
President of the Council who shall preside at all meetings of the Council and
perform all other duties of the Mayor in the absence of the Mayor; and, in the
absence of the President the Council shall elect one of their members to occupy
his place temporarily, who shall be styled acting President of the Council, and
the President and acting President, when occupying the place of Mayor, shall
have the same privileges as other members of the Council and all actions of the
President and acting President, while so acting, shall be binding upon the
Council and upon the Municipality as if performed by the Mayor. (1960 Code)
1-8-6: TIME AND PLACE OF MEETING:
Meetings shall be held at the City Hall on the first and third Tuesdays of each
month at six o'clock (6:00) P.M. (Ord. 385, 12-17-2018; amd. Ord. 434, 2-2-
2026)
***** CHAPTER 9
APPOINTIVE OFFICERS *****
SECTION:
1-9-1: Appointments
1-9-2: Terms Of Office
1-9-3: Removal From Office
1-9-4: Bonds Of Officers
1-9-1: APPOINTMENTS:
The mayor shall appoint, subject to approval of the council, a clerk, attorney,
engineer and treasurer. The mayor may appoint, subject to approval by the
council, such other officers as may be deemed necessary for the efficient
operation of the business of the municipality. (Ord. 287, 7-7-2003)
1-9-2: TERMS OF OFFICE:
All appointments shall continue until resignation, retirement or removal of the
appointed official as set forth in section 1-9-3. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 398,
10-21-2019)
1-9-3: REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
Any appointed officer may be removed from office by the mayor with the
concurrence by and with the affirmative vote of one half (1/2) plus one (1) of
the members of the full council. The city council, by the unanimous vote of all
its members, may upon their own initiative remove any appointive officer. (1960
Code; amd. Ord. 398, 10-21-2019)
1-9-4: BONDS OF OFFICERS:
Certain officers shall give bonds in favor of the municipality with two (2) or
more sureties, or surety bonds may be furnished in lieu of personal bonds as
follows:
   Clerk      $10,000.00
   Treasurer   10,000.00
Bonds so furnished in accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall be
furnished at the expense of the municipality. (1960 Code)
***** CHAPTER 10
CLERK *****
SECTION:
1-10-1: Appointment And Removal
1-10-2: Duties
1-10-3: Records Of The Governing Body
1-10-4: Ordinances
1-10-5: Election Records
1-10-6: Notify Of Term Expirations
1-10-7: Official Seal
1-10-8: Copies Of Records
1-10-9: Collections To Treasurer
1-10-10: Licenses
1-10-11: Bonds
1-10-12: Warrants
1-10-13: Claims
1-10-14: Damages
1-10-1: APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL:
   A.   The clerk shall be appointed by the mayor subject to the approval of a
majority vote of the council. The appointed clerk shall hold office until
removed by the mayor with the concurrence of the council. The vote of the
council on removal shall be by and with the affirmative vote of one half (1/2)
plus one (1) of the members of the full council.
   B.   The city council, by the unanimous vote of all its members, may upon
their own initiative remove the clerk. (Ord. 346, 9-21-2015; amd. Ord. 398, 10-
21-2019)
1-10-2: DUTIES:
In all cases where the duty is not expressly charged to any other department or
office the clerk shall have supervision, control and responsibility of all of
the records of the municipality. He shall serve as clerk of the governing body
and perform such other duties of a like nature as shall be required by that
body. (1960 Code)
1-10-3: RECORDS OF THE GOVERNING BODY:
The clerk shall be responsible for the recording, filing, indexing and
safekeeping of all proceedings of the governing body and shall have published
all proceedings, legal notices, ordinances and resolutions that are required to
be published by this code or by state statute. (1960 Code)
1-10-4: ORDINANCES:
The clerk shall record in full, uniformly and permanently, all ordinances and
he shall authenticate the same. (1960 Code)
1-10-5: ELECTION RECORDS:
The clerk shall keep and maintain all election records and have custody of all
property used in connection with elections. (1960 Code)
1-10-6: NOTIFY OF TERM EXPIRATIONS:
The clerk shall notify the appointing authority of the impending expiration of
the term of office of a member of any board or commission at least thirty (30)
days before the expiration of the term. (1960 Code)
1-10-7: OFFICIAL SEAL:
The clerk shall be the custodian of the official seal of the municipality.
(1960 Code)
1-10-8: COPIES OF RECORDS:
The clerk shall furnish to any member of the governing body a certified copy of
any record or document in his custody and he may furnish such a copy to any
other person upon payment of a fee to be determined by the governing body.
(1960 Code)
1-10-9: COLLECTIONS TO TREASURER:
Within ten (10) days after the first day of each month the clerk shall turn
over to the treasurer all funds collected by him during the preceding month.
(1960 Code)
1-10-10: LICENSES:
In all cases where the duty is not expressly charged to any other department or
office the clerk shall issue all licenses in accordance with the provisions of
this code. A record of all licenses issued, including the name of the person to
whom issued, the amount of the license fee, and the purpose of the license
shall be kept by the clerk. (1960 Code)
1-10-11: BONDS:
The clerk shall keep a complete record of all outstanding bonds of the
municipality and report such record regularly to the governing body. (1960
Code)
1-10-12: WARRANTS:
The clerk shall countersign all warrants and keep a "warrant register and
abstract of expenditures" showing the number and amount of warrants issued and
the person to whom issued, the date redeemed, the interest paid and the several
funds against which each of said warrants is drawn. (1960 Code)
1-10-13: CLAIMS:
All claims against the municipality must be filed in writing with the clerk.
Claims must present a full account of the items and must contain a verification
under oath by the claimant to the effect that the claim is correct, reasonable
and just and that no part of said claim has been paid. All such claims must be
approved by the governing body before payment can be made. (1960 Code)
1-10-14: DAMAGES:
All claims for damages against the municipality must be filed with the clerk
within six (6) months after such time as the damage is alleged to have accrued.
All such claims shall specify the time, place, character and cause of damage
and no action shall be maintained against the municipality for any claim for
damages until sixty (60) days have elapsed after such presentation. Allowance
of any claim for damages against the municipality shall be made only by
ordinance. (1960 Code)
***** CHAPTER 11
TREASURER *****
SECTION:
1-11-1: Appointment And Removal
1-11-2: Duties
1-11-3: Accounts
1-11-4: Monies
1-11-5: Collections
1-11-6: Warrants
1-11-7: Cancellation Of Warrants
1-11-8: Monthly Report
1-11-9: Quarterly Report
1-11-10: Delivery To Successor
1-11-1: APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL:
   A.   The treasurer shall be appointed by the mayor subject to the approval
of a majority vote of the council. The appointed treasurer shall hold office
until removed by the mayor with the concurrence of the council. The vote of the
council on removal shall be by and with the affirmative vote of one half (1/2)
plus one (1) of the members of the full council.
   B.   The city council, by the unanimous vote of all its members, may upon
their own initiative remove the treasurer. (Ord. 346, 9-21-2015; amd. Ord. 398,
10-21-2019)
1-11-2: DUTIES:
In all cases where the duty is not expressly charged to any other department or
office the treasurer shall act to promote, secure and preserve the financial
and property interests of the municipality. He shall safely keep in designated
depositories all funds belonging to the municipality and all other securities
in safety deposit boxes of an approved institution designated by the governing
body. (1960 Code)
1-11-3: ACCOUNTS:
The treasurer shall keep in proper books a full and accurate account of all the
monies received and disbursed by him in behalf of the municipality, specifying
the time of receipt and disbursement, from whom received and to whom disbursed,
and on what account received and disbursed, and how paid. (1960 Code)
1-11-4: MONIES:
The treasurer shall receive and have custody of all monies paid to the
municipality and shall disburse monies upon the official warrant of the
municipality when so ordered by the governing body. (1960 Code)
1-11-5: COLLECTIONS:
The treasurer shall demand and receive all monies and fees owing to the
municipality whenever any person is indebted to the municipality in any manner,
and the means of collection of such debt is not otherwise provided for by law.
When any claim shall not be collectible by other methods he shall report the
same to the attorney for prosecution. (1960 Code)
1-11-6: WARRANTS:
Warrants shall be paid by the treasurer from funds available in the order in
which the warrants are presented for payment. When a warrant is presented for
payment and no funds are available the treasurer shall plainly mark the warrant
"Not Paid for Want of Funds" and enter the same in a book maintained for such
purpose which shall be known as the "warrant register". Such warrants shall
bear interest at the rate of seven percent (7%) per annum from the date of
presentation until paid.
Warrants shall be called for payment in the order in which they were presented
whenever sufficient funds are available to the treasurer to make such payment.
(1960 Code)
1-11-7: CANCELLATION OF WARRANTS:
The treasurer shall cancel all warrants and other evidence of debt against the
municipality, whenever paid by him, by writing or stamping across the face
thereof the words "Paid By The Treasurer" with the date of payment written or
stamped thereon. These warrants and evidences of debt, so canceled, shall be
delivered immediately to the clerk. (1960 Code)
1-11-8: MONTHLY REPORT:
The treasurer shall make a detailed report to the governing body during the
first week of each month showing the business of his office during the month
preceding, showing the balance on hand to the credit of the different funds,
the amounts received during the month, and on what account, together with such
other information as may be required by the governing body. (1960 Code)
1-11-9: QUARTERLY REPORT:
The treasurer shall cause to be published for at least one insertion in a
newspaper of general circulation in the municipality a full statement of the
receipts and expenditures of the municipality, showing sources of revenue and
disposition of funds. This quarterly report shall be published before the third
Monday of the months of May, August, November, and February. (1960 Code)
1-11-10: DELIVERY TO SUCCESSOR:
The treasurer shall deliver to his successor in office all materials, records,
and resources of the office. (1960 Code)
***** CHAPTER 12
ATTORNEY *****
SECTION:
1-12-1: Appointment
1-12-2: Suits And Actions
1-12-3: Judgments
1-12-4: Advice
1-12-5: Special Assessments
1-12-6: Ordinances And Documents
1-12-1: APPOINTMENT:
The attorney shall be appointed by the mayor subject to the approval of the
council. He shall hold office for the duration of his appointment unless sooner
removed by the mayor with the concurrence of the council. (1960 Code)
1-12-2: SUITS AND ACTIONS:
The attorney shall prosecute or defend any and all suits or actions at law or
equity to which the municipality may be a party, or in which it may be
interested, or which may be brought against, or by, any officer of the
municipality on behalf of the municipality, or in the capacity of such person
as an officer of the municipality. (1960 Code)
1-12-3: JUDGMENTS:
It shall be the duty of the attorney to see to the full enforcement of all
judgments or decrees rendered or entered in favor of the municipality and of
all similar interlocutory orders. (1960 Code)
1-12-4: ADVICE:
The attorney shall be the legal advisor of the municipality, and shall render
advice on all legal questions affecting the municipality, whenever requested to
do so by any municipal official. Upon request by the mayor or by the council,
he shall reduce any such opinion to writing. (1960 Code)
1-12-5: SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS:
It shall be the duty of the attorney to see to the completion of all special
assessment proceedings and condemnation proceedings. (1960 Code)
1-12-6: ORDINANCES AND DOCUMENTS:
It shall be the duty of the attorney to draft or supervise the phraseology of
any contract, lease or other documents or instruments, to which the
municipality may be a party; and upon request of the council to draft
ordinances covering any subjects within the power of the municipality. (1960
Code)
***** CHAPTER 13
CHIEF OF POLICE *****
(Rep. by Ord. 287, 7-7-2003)
***** CHAPTER 14
CHIEF OF FIRE DEPARTMENT *****
(Rep. by Ord. 287, 7-7-2003)
***** CHAPTER 15
WATER SUPERINTENDENT *****
(Rep. by Ord. 287, 7-7-2003)
***** CHAPTER 16
STREET SUPERINTENDENT *****
(Rep. by Ord. 287, 7-7-2003)
***** CHAPTER 17
POLICE JUDGE *****
(Rep. by Ord. 287, 7-7-2003)
***** CHAPTER 18
HEALTH OFFICER *****
(Rep. by Ord. 287, 7-7-2003)
***** CHAPTER 19
DEPOSITORY *****
SECTION:
1-19-1: Depository Designated
1-19-1: DEPOSITORY DESIGNATED:
The official depository of the City is hereby designated as Zions First
National Bank, N.A., New Plymouth, Idaho. (Ord. 370, 1-16-2018)
***** CHAPTER 20
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER *****
SECTION:
1-20-1: Official Newspaper Declared
1-20-1: OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER DECLARED:
   (A)   Pursuant to section 50-213 Idaho Code, the Idaho Press published in
Nampa, Idaho is hereby declared and the same is hereby deemed to be the
official newspaper of the City of New Plymouth, Idaho.
   (B)   The City Clerk is hereby directed to publish all notices as the
publication may be required by law in the said Idaho Press so long as the Idaho
Press continues to meet all of the requirements of titles 50 and 60 or any
other applicable title of the Idaho Code. (Ord. 357, 3-20-2017; amd. Ord. 402,
6-22-2020)
***** CHAPTER 21
CITY LIMITS *****
SECTION:
1-21-1: City Limits
1-21-1: CITY LIMITS:
The City limits shall be as shown and designated on the Official Map on file in
the office of the Clerk. (1960 Code)
***** CHAPTER 22
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM *****
(Rep. by Ord. 359, 6-19-2017)
***** CHAPTER 23
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION *****
SECTION:
1-23-1: Creation; Powers
1-23-2: Powers And Duties
1-23-3: Charter
1-23-4: Board Of Directors
1-23-5: Conduct Of Corporate Affairs
1-23-6: Conflict Of Interest
1-23-7: Monies, Distribution And Earnings
1-23-1: CREATION; POWERS:
   (A)   The City does hereby create and with this chapter does create a public
corporation to carry out the purposes of the Act. This chapter will not be
construed to limit or restrict the purposes of the Act, but shall be liberally
construed to affect such purposes.
   (B)   The name of the public corporation shall be the New Plymouth
Industrial Development Corporation (the "corporation"). (Ord. 157, 6-6-1983)
1-23-2: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   (A)   The corporation shall have all the powers and authority set forth in
the Act and shall be subject to all the limitations and conditions therein
contained. Said powers and limitations are set forth in the charter, a copy of
which is attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference thereto, as if
set forth in full verbatim; and said enumerations shall not be construed as a
limitation upon the powers of the corporation.
   (B)   The Corporation shall have all the powers granted by the Act. Such
powers shall include, without limitation, all powers set forth in the charter,
together with any express or implied powers contained within title 50, section
27, Idaho Code, which are not expressly set forth in said charter.
1-23-3: CHARTER:
The Corporation charter (the "charter") is hereby created and issued by the
City to the Corporation. Said charter grants to the Corporation all powers
authorized by the Act and subjects the same to all the limitations imposed
thereby. The charter is hereby approved, pursuant to section 50-2703.1 of the
Act. The charter may be amended, altered or changed at any time at the
discretion of the City and the City may terminate the public corporation if
contracts entered into are not impaired. With this Chapter, however, the City
does not attempt to delegate any of its attributes of sovereignty to the public
corporation. The existence of the corporation commences simultaneously when
this Chapter becomes effective.
1-23-4: BOARD OF DIRECTORS:
The Board of Directors to the Corporation (the "Board") shall be comprised of
three (3) residents of the City, appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the
City Council. Of the members first appointed, one member shall serve for a one
year term, one for a two (2) year term and one for a three (3) year term.
Thereafter, upon the expiration of a term of appointment, each member shall be
appointed to a three (3) year term. If a vacancy occurs during an unexpired
term, the Mayor, with the confirmation of the Council, shall appoint a member,
who shall also be a resident of the City, to serve the remainder of the
unexpired term. A simple majority of the members of the Board shall constitute
a quorum and the approval of the majority of a quorum shall be sufficient and
necessary for the Board to take any action.
1-23-5: CONDUCT OF CORPORATE AFFAIRS:
The affairs of the Corporation shall be conducted and carried out by the Board.
The Board shall elect officers from its own members and shall consist of a
president, vice-president and a secretary-treasurer. These officers shall be
elected at the initial meeting of the Board in each calendar year and shall
serve until their successors have been duly elected. The Board may elect other
such officers as it shall, from time to time, determine to be necessary or
desirable and may appoint agents or employees as the Board determines the same
shall be required. The Board shall adopt by-laws governing the election of
officers, the power and duty of the officers, the filling of vacancies in
offices, scheduling and giving of notice, the conduct of the meetings and the
conduct of the Corporation. Such by-laws, rules and regulations may be amended
from time to time by the Board, provided that such amendments shall be
consistent with the provisions herein contained. Members of the Board shall
serve without compensation, but may be reimbursed for expenses as may be
provided in the by-laws, rules and regulations of the Board, with the approval
of the City.
1-23-6: CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
No director, officer, agent, employee or official of the Corporation shall have
a direct or indirect financial interest in any property to be included in or
any contract for property, service or materials to be furnished or used in
connection with any industrial development facility financed through the
Corporation.
1-23-7: MONIES, DISTRIBUTION AND EARNINGS:
   (A)   The City may not give or lend any money or property in aid of the
Corporation except as expressly authorized by the Act. This provision shall not
preclude the City from dealing with the Corporation on an arms length basis.
   (B)   Any net earnings of the Corporation beyond those necessary for
retirement of indebtedness incurred by it shall inure to the benefit of the
City and not for the benefit of any other person or entity. Said Corporation
shall be subject to annual audits and the City shall audit said Corporation
annually and additionally from time to time as the City may so desire.
   (C)   All expenses incurred by the Corporation shall be repaid from the
proceeds of any issued revenue bonds or from money or property paid by a user
or other private source. The funds and property of the City shall not be
responsible for repayment of any expenses of said Corporation. The Corporation
shall not co-mingle the proceeds of one bond issue with the proceeds of another
bond issue or with the monies of any other public corporation, municipality,
person or entity.
   (D)   Upon the dissolution of the Corporation, title to any and all property
owned by the Corporation shall vest in the City. (Ord. 157, 6-6-83)
***** CHAPTER 24
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION *****
SECTION:
1-24-1: Employee Files
1-24-2: Law Enforcement Information
1-24-1: EMPLOYEE FILES:
   (A)   Files Are Confidential: All documents, memoranda or other information
which is included, or intended to be included, in an employee's file is
confidential.
   (B)   Authorized Disclosures: No information which is included in an
employee's file shall be disclosed except in the manner and form following:
      1.   Confidential information contained within an employee's file may be
used by that employee's supervisor or the City Council for job evaluation and
other legitimate reasons connected to the employee's job performance.
      2.   Confidential information may be disclosed to third parties only upon
written consent of the employee, or if the employee has requested another party
to seek the information for job related purposes.
      3.   Nothing herein shall be intended to preclude the use of any
confidential information by any appointed City officials or City advisors when
needed for purposes of litigation, evaluating claims or evaluating potential
litigation.
   (C)   Violations: Any disclosures in violation of this Section shall be
deemed a misdemeanor. (Ord. 178, 4-6-87)
1-24-2: LAW ENFORCEMENT INFORMATION:
   (A)   Information Confidential: Information collected by any law enforcement
agency during the course of an investigation concerning a matter occurring in
the City is confidential.
   (B)   Authorized Disclosures:
      1.   No information so collected shall be disclosed to any outside
source, other than to other law enforcement agencies, the prosecuting attorney
and the appointed prosecuting attorney for legitimate law enforcement reasons.
      2.   Any information collected herein shall be made available to the City
Council or its agents or appointees at any time, for any reason. Such
information, however, shall not be made public nor disclosed, except for
legitimate law enforcement reasons or upon proper authorization obtained
through court orders during related discovery.
   (C)   Violations: Any disclosures in violation of this Section shall be
deemed a misdemeanor. (Ord. 179, 4-6-87)
***** CHAPTER 25
OFFICIAL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN *****
SECTION:
1-25-1: Adoption Of Plan
1-25-1: ADOPTION OF PLAN:
Ordinance 216, dated October 17, 1994, being the City's Official Comprehensive
Plan, and any amendments thereto, are hereby incorporated herein and made a
part hereof by reference. Said Comprehensive Plan is on file in the office of
the City Clerk. (Ord. 216, 10-17-1994)
TITLE II
COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION 1
(Rep. by Ord. 363, 9-5-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. See title XI, chapter 3 of this Code.
***** CHAPTER 2
BOARD OF HEALTH *****
SECTION:
2-2-1: Board of Health Created; Personnel
2-2-2: Appointment of Board; Term of Office
2-2-3: Powers of Board
2-2-4: Mayor Chairman of Board
2-2-5: Quorum
2-2-1: BOARD OF HEALTH CREATED; PERSONNEL:
A Board of Health for the City is hereby created to consist of the following
members:
The Mayor, one other member of the City Council and one other citizen of the
City. Provided that one member of said Board of Health shall be a regularly
licensed and practicing physician within the City.
2-2-2: APPOINTMENT OF BOARD; TERM OF OFFICE:
The members of the Board of Health shall be appointed by the Mayor with
approval of the City Council of said City and shall hold their office until
their successors are appointed and qualify.
2-2-3: POWERS OF BOARD:
The Board of Health, or any member or members delegated therefrom, shall have
power to examine private premises, as well as public, in the interest of the
health of the City, and, if deemed necessary by said Board, to cause any and
all premises, buildings, or other place or places, to be cleaned or
disinfected, or both; and to adopt and enforce rules and regulations of a
sanitary character that may be deemed necessary. They shall have such power and
authority as is delegated by the laws of the State of Idaho to the Boards of
Health of like degree.
2-2-4: MAYOR CHAIRMAN OF BOARD:
The Mayor shall be Chairman of the Board of Health and shall have power to call
the Board together at any and all times and in case of his absence, inability
or refusal so to act, then the other members may call and hold meetings.
Provided that the minutes of such meeting shall show the absence, inability or
refusal of the Chairman to call such meeting.
2-2-5: QUORUM:
A majority of said Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any
and all business of said Board.
***** CHAPTER 3
LIBRARY BOARD *****
SECTION:
2-3-1: Appointment; Term of Office
2-3-2: Organization and Powers
2-3-3: Tax Levy
2-3-4: Creation of Library Board
2-3-5: For Use by Residents and Nonresidents
2-3-6: Reservation of Authority
2-3-7: Effective Date of Users' Cards
2-3-8: Damaging Library Property
2-3-9: Implied Agreement
2-3-10: Retention of Property
2-3-11: Limitation of Number of Books
2-3-12: Family Issues of Cards
2-3-13: Penalty
2-3-1: APPOINTMENT; TERM OF OFFICE:
The Mayor, with the consent of the Council, may appoint a Library Board
consisting of five (5) members, one of which shall be a member of the Council.
Such Directors shall hold their office for three (3) years from the date of
appointment, and until their successors are appointed, but upon their first
appointment they shall divide themselves at their first meeting by lot, into
three (3) classes; two (2) members shall form the first class and shall serve
for one year; two (2) members shall form the second class and shall serve for
two (2) years; and one member shall form the third class and shall serve for
three (3) years. No compensation shall be paid or allowed to any member of the
Library Board in any manner whatsoever.
2-3-2: ORGANIZATION AND POWERS:
Said Board shall, immediately after their appointment, meet and organize by
electing one of their number president, and by the election of such other
officers as they may deem necessary. They shall make and adopt such rules and
regulations as may be expedient. They shall have exclusive control of the
expenditure of all moneys collected and the supervision, care and custody of
all buildings. They may appoint a librarian and assistants and prescribe rules
for their conduct. (1960 Code)
2-3-3: TAX LEVY:
Pursuant to section 33-2602 of the Idaho Code, the City Council shall annually
levy and cause to be collected as other taxes are, a tax not exceeding five (5)
mills on the dollar of the taxable property of the City to constitute a Library
Fund, which shall be kept by the Treasurer, separate and apart from other
moneys of the City, which shall be used exclusively for the purchase of books,
periodicals, necessary furniture and fixtures and whatever is required for the
maintenance of such library.
2-3-4: CREATION OF LIBRARY BOARD:
The City Council hereby creates and establishes a Library Board, which Board is
hereby authorized to perform all acts allowed by Statute. By the establishment
of this Board, the Council does not relinquish or surrender any rights or
authority to act itself as the Library Board, but reserves the right to act
concurrently with or separately from said Board. From time to time in the
following sections of this Chapter, the Council may reserve specific authority,
but such reservations shall not be construed as a limitation on the general
reservation herein stated.
2-3-5: FOR USE BY RESIDENTS AND NONRESIDENTS:
The library established under this Chapter shall be forever free for the use of
the residents of the City, subject to such reasonable rules and regulations as
the Library Board or the City Council may find necessary to adopt and publish
in order to render the use of the library for the greatest benefit to the
greatest number of persons, and by rule or ordinance the Board or City Council
may exclude and cut off from the use of said library any and all persons who
shall wilfully violate such rules and regulations. Said Council reserves the
right, from time to time, to set fees to be charged to nonresidents. A
nonresident shall be defined as any person who does not live within the
corporate City limits.
2-3-6: RESERVATION OF AUTHORITY:
The City Council hereby reserves for itself the authority and power to set
fees, establish fines and penalties, and the authority to impose such rules and
regulations as the said Council deems fit in addition to, or concurrently with,
the rules and regulations set by the Library Board.
2-3-7: EFFECTIVE DATE OF USERS' CARDS:
The City Council further reserves the right to set rules controlling the
effective and expiration dates of cards which are issued to library users.
2-3-8: DAMAGING LIBRARY PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully or intentionally cut, tear,
deface, break, injure or destroy any book, map, chart or any other property
belonging to the public library.
2-3-9: IMPLIED AGREEMENT:
Every person who takes a book or removes an article belonging to the public
library, agrees that the book or article is in good condition, has been
examined by the person removing the same, and that they will return the book or
property in as good condition as when the book or item was removed from the
library, reasonable wear and tear accepted.
2-3-10: RETENTION OF PROPERTY:
No person shall wilfully retain any property belonging to the public library
for more than thirty (30) days after the same has been removed from the
library. Any person who removes any book or article from the library impliedly
consents upon making application for a library card or when checking out a book
or an article that the book or article shall be returned within thirty (30)
days from the date it is checked out or removed from said library.
2-3-11: LIMITATION OF NUMBER OF BOOKS:
The City Council specifically reserves the right to limit by regulation or
rule, the number of books that an individual or family can remove from the
library at any given time. Such a regulation or rule shall have the same force
and effect as the implementing ordinance would have if the limitations were set
out herein.
2-3-12: FAMILY ISSUES OF CARDS:
All cards issued out of the library provided for by City Code shall be deemed
family cards and shall be deemed issued only to responsible persons over
eighteen (18) years of age or to the heads of households. No card shall be
issued to a minor child except in the event that a responsible adult agrees to
accept full liability and responsibility for the actions of the child receiving
the card. Any adult to whom the card is issued, or who signs a consent allowing
a card to be issued to a minor child, shall be financially responsible for any
loss or damage to any book or article removed from the library, or any damage
done to any article within the library, or for any overdue books.
2-3-13: PENALTY:
   (A)   Any person who shall wilfully violate this Chapter by intentionally
cutting, tearing, defacing, breaking, injuring or destroying any property
belonging to the public library, whether within the premises or after the
property has been removed from the premises, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished by a maximum fine not exceeding three hundred
dollars ($300.00), or by imprisonment not to exceed six (6) months in the
Payette County jail or by both imprisonment and fine.
   (B)   Any person who retains in his possession any article belonging to the
public library for a period of more than thirty (30) days after removing the
same from said library, shall be responsible to the library for the full
replacement value of the article or item, together with any court costs or
attorney's fees required or any other costs incurred in locating the parties
and securing payment.
   (C)   Any person who shall unintentionally or accidentally cut, tear, break,
injure or destroy any property belonging to the public library, shall be
responsible for the full replacement value of the item together with any
attorney's fees and court costs required in securing payment of the same.
   (D)   Any person who violates any section of this Chapter shall be subject
to having his library card revoked immediately without notice of any kind.
(Ord. 134, 7-2-79, eff. 7-12-79)
***** CHAPTER 4
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE ADVISORY COMMITTEES *****
SECTION:
2-4-1: Development Impact Fee Advisory Committees
2-4-2: Committee Membership
2-4-3: Committees Charge
2-4-4: Advisory Committee Organization
2-4-5: Committee Reporting
2-4-6: Review Of Committee’s Reports And Recommendations
2-4-1: DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE ADVISORY COMMITTEES:
The following named development impact fee advisory committees of City of New
Plymouth (“City”) are established as standing permanent committees:
   A.   City of New Plymouth Development Impact Fee Advisory Committee; and
   B.   New Plymouth Fire Protection District Development Impact Fee Advisory
Committee by an intergovernmental agreement.
(Ord. 424, 9-5-2023)
2-4-2: COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP:
The members of the City of New Plymouth Development Impact Fee Advisory
Committee shall be appointed (including vacancy appointments) by mayor with the
advice and consent of the city council. The members of the development impact
fee advisory committees established by an intergovernmental agreement shall be
appointed as provided in the intergovernmental agreement (including vacancy
appointments) for a term stated of at least one (1) year.
   A.   Notice of Committee Appointments: Pursuant to the intergovernmental
agreements, notice of appointments shall be provided to the city clerk and the
city council within seven (7) days of any such appointment.
   B.   Committee Membership Requirements: There shall be no fewer than five
(5) members on the development impact fee advisory committees (“advisory
committees”) and two (2) or more members must be active in the business of
development, building, or real estate. All members must reside within the
service area of the applicable capital improvement plan. No members shall be
employees or officials of the city or of the district whose service area is the
subject of the applicable capital improvements plan, with which the city has an
intergovernmental agreement to enact an impact fee ordinance.
(Ord. 424, 9-5-2023)
2-4-3: COMMITTEES CHARGE:
Each development impact fee advisory committee established by this chapter
shall serve as an advisory committee to the city council. In the case of
advisory committees established by an intergovernmental agreement, the advisory
committees shall also serve as an advisory committee to the governing body of
any district with whom the city has an intergovernmental agreement to enact an
impact fee ordinance. Each advisory committee is charged with the following
responsibilities:
   A.   Assist in adopting land use assumptions;
   B.   Review the capital improvements plan;
   C.   Monitor and evaluate implementation of the capital improvements plan;
   D.   File with the impact fee administrator and the city clerk (at least
annually) a report of any perceived inequities in implementing the capital
improvements plan or imposing development impact fees;
   E.   Advise the city council and the governing body of the other party (per
the respective intergovernmental agreement) of the need to update or revise
land use assumptions of capital improvements plans;
   F.   The city and the governing body of the other party (per the respective
intergovernmental agreement) shall make available to the advisory committees,
upon request, all financial and accounting information, professional reports in
relation to development and implementation of land use assumptions of the
capital improvements plans, and of the need for periodic updates to the capital
improvements plan(s).
(Ord. 424, 9-5-2023)
2-4-4: ADVISORY COMMITTEE ORGANIZATION:
The impact fee administrator shall staff the advisory committee in order to
provide the committee with needed information for the committee’s review and
for the committee’s compliance with the Open Meeting Law (Chapter 2 of Title 74
Idaho Code).
   A.   The advisory committee shall select its officers, which include a
chairman, vice chairman and a secretary of the committee;
   B.   The chairman shall conduct the meetings of the committee. The duties of
the chairman shall be performed by the vice chairman in the absence of the
chairman or as delegated by the chairman. The chairman and the vice chairman
shall be members of the committee;
   C.   The impact fee administrator shall serve as the secretary of the
committee and shall take minutes and post agenda notices as required by the
Open Meeting Law. The secretary is not a member of the committee;
   D.   The committee shall establish a regular meeting schedule;
   E.   The agenda of each meeting shall include the approval of the minutes of
the last meeting and the secretary shall provide a copy of the approved minutes
to the city council and to the respective governing body of the party with whom
the city has an intergovernmental agreement;
   F.   Fifty (50) percent of the membership of the committee shall constitute
a quorum. Once a quorum is established for a meeting, the subsequent absence of
a member present for creating the quorum shall not dismiss the quorum; and
   G.   A majority vote of those present at any meeting is sufficient to carry
motions.
(Ord. 424, 9-5-2023)
2-4-5: COMMITTEE REPORTING:
The advisory committees report directly to the city council and to the
respective governing body of the party with whom the city has an
intergovernmental agreement.
(Ord. 424, 9-5-2023)
2-4-6: REVIEW OF COMMITTEE’S REPORTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS:
The city council and the respective governing body of any district with whom
the city has an intergovernmental agreement shall each consider the advisory
committee’s recommended revision(s) to the capital improvements plan (as
relevant) at least once every twelve (12) months. Each advisory committee shall
make recommendations intended to ensure that the development impact fees are
equitable, so that the impact fee charged to a development do not exceed a
proportionate share of system improvements costs, and that the procedures for
administering impact fees remain efficient.
(Ord. 424, 9-5-2023)
TITLE III
DEPARTMENTS
***** CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT *****
SECTION:
3-1-1: Department Created
3-1-2: Duties
3-1-3: Witness Fee
3-1-4: Rules And Regulations
3-1-5: Matron
3-1-6: Rewards
3-1-7: Minimum Service Requirements
3-1-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
There is hereby created a Police Department which shall consist of the Chief of
Police and such other personnel as may be provided by the Governing Body of the
Municipality. (1960 Code)
3-1-2: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the members of the Police Department to see to the
enforcement of all of the laws of the Municipality and all statutes applicable
therein; and to preserve order and prevent infractions of the law and arrest
violators thereof. (1960 Code)
3-1-3: WITNESS FEE:
Every member of the Police Department shall appear as a witness whenever
necessary in a prosecution for a violation of any law or of any State or
Federal law. No such member shall retain any witness fee for service as witness
in any action or suit to which the Municipality is a party; any fees paid for
such services shall be turned over to the Chief of Police, who shall deposit
the same with the Treasurer. (1960 Code)
3-1-4: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Chief of the Police Department may make or prescribe such rules and
regulations as he shall deem advisable; such rules, when approved by the
Governing Body, shall be binding on such members. Such rules and regulations
may cover, besides the conduct of the members, uniforms and equipment to be
worn or carried, hours of service, vacations and all other similar matters
necessary or desirable for the better efficiency of the Department. (1960 Code)
3-1-5: MATRON:
The Mayor, with the consent of the Council, may appoint a Police Matron, who
shall perform such duties as may be assigned to her by the Chief of Police or
by the Mayor. (1960 Code)
3-1-6: REWARDS:
The Chief of Police, for meritorious service rendered by any member of the
police force in the due discharge of his duty, may permit such member to retain
for his own benefit, so far as he may be permitted by law, any reward or
present tendered him therefor, and it shall be cause of removal for any member
of the force to receive any such reward or present without notice thereof to
the Chief of Police and without his permission. (1960 Code)
3-1-7: MINIMUM SERVICE REQUIREMENTS:
Before a City police officer is sent to the Police Officers Standards and
Training Academy (POST) for certification, that officer shall be required to
sign an agreement that after graduation the officer shall remain with the City
for a minimum of one year. If during that one-year period following graduation,
the officer voluntarily quits or voluntarily separates from the City, that
officer shall reimburse the City for any and all costs which are incurred by
the City, which costs are associated with that officer's attendance at POST.
Those costs may include, but are not limited to, wages paid for shift coverage
in the officer's absence. (Ord. 227, 5-6-1996)
***** CHAPTER 2
FIRE DEPARTMENT *****
(Rep. by Ord. 362, 8-23-2017)
***** CHAPTER 3
WATER DEPARTMENT *****
SECTION:
3-3-1: Water System Property Of City
3-3-2: Water Superintendent In Charge Of System; Duties
3-3-3: Turning Water On
3-3-4: Application
3-3-5: Plumbing
3-3-6: Meters
3-3-7: Reading Meters
3-3-8: Rates Established By Resolution - No New Connections Outside City
3-3-9: Monthly Statement; Nonpayment
3-3-10: Responsibility For Accounts And Write Offs
3-3-11: Water User's Fee
3-3-12: Separate Meter Requirement
3-3-13: Fire Hydrants
3-3-1: WATER SYSTEM PROPERTY OF CITY:
All mains, laterals, pipes, hydrants and fixtures now laid, constructed or
installed, or hereafter to be laid, constructed or installed in, under, across
or through the streets, avenues, alleys and other thoroughfares of the City, or
adjacent territory, for supplying water to said City and the inhabitants
thereof, are hereby declared to be the property of the City, under the control
thereof and subject to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 76, 5-4-1964)
3-3-2: WATER SUPERINTENDENT IN CHARGE OF SYSTEM; DUTIES:
The Water Superintendent shall have general supervision over the waterworks of
the City, and appurtenances thereto, under the direction of the Mayor and
Council. Said Superintendent shall attend to the tapping of mains, and laying
and connecting laterals and installation of meters and meter boxes, and shall
see that all open ditches and excavations on or along the streets, alleys and
thoroughfares of said City are carefully guarded by rails and lights or other
proper warning signals. He shall have charge of and operate the pumping
stations and reservoirs and shall keep the mains of said system filled with
pure and wholesome water at a pressure sufficient for proper fire protection.
Said Superintendent shall also keep an inventory of all property belonging to
the water system and shall, with the consent of the Mayor and Council, purchase
supplies and equipment necessary for the maintenance of the system. He shall,
upon request, attend meetings of the Council and render such reports and
statements as may be required. He shall perform such other duties as may be
required of him by law or order of the Mayor or Council, and to the end that
the provisions of this section may be carried out, said Superintendent shall be
allowed such assistance as the Mayor or Council may deem necessary and proper.
(Ord. 209, 6-7-1993)
3-3-3: TURNING WATER ON:
   (A)   No water from the City water supply shall be turned on for service
into any premises by any person other than the Superintendent or some person
authorized by him to perform this service. (Ord. 234, 12-16-1996)
   (B)   No water shall be turned on until there is first paid to the City
Clerk a deposit of one hundred thirty five dollars ($135.00). A deposit shall
not be refunded until the depositor has made twelve (12) consecutive timely
payments. (Ord. 369, 12-4-2017)
3-3-4: APPLICATION:
Application to have water turned on shall be made in writing to the Clerk, and
shall contain an agreement by the applicant to abide by and accept all of the
provisions of this chapter as conditions governing the use of the City water
supply by the applicant. (Ord. 76, 5-4-1964)
3-3-5: PLUMBING:
No water shall be turned on for service in premises in which the plumbing does
not comply with the specifications of the City; provided that water may be
turned on for construction work in unfinished buildings, subject to the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 76, 5-4-1964)
3-3-6: METERS:
All premises using City water must be equipped with an adequate water meter
which will be furnished by the City upon payment of those installation charges
established by resolution by the New Plymouth City Council.
All meters shall be installed under the direction of the Superintendent and
subject to his approval. The Superintendent shall have access to any building
at any reasonable hour for the purpose of inspection of any part of the water
system. (Ord. 364, 9-18-2017)
3-3-7: READING METERS:
The Superintendent shall read or cause to be read every water meter used in the
City at such times as are necessary so that the bills may be sent out at the
proper time. (Ord. 209, 6-7-1993)
3-3-8: RATES ESTABLISHED BY RESOLUTION - NO NEW CONNECTIONS OUTSIDE CITY:
   (A)   All minimum monthly charges for water and sewer, all bond redemption
fees for sewer and water and all other water and sewer charges, shall be set by
a resolution of the New Plymouth City Council and shall be paid in accordance
with the terms of the resolution.
   (B)   Water and sewer fees shall not apply to vacant or abandoned lots which
do not have or have not had an existing water meter.
   (C)   Connections to City water shall not be made to property or buildings
erected on property outside the City limits. (Ord. 364, 9-18-2017)
3-3-9: MONTHLY STATEMENT; NONPAYMENT:
   (A)   Monthly statements for water used shall be dated and sent out at such
times as specified by the Mayor and Council. (Ord. 209, 6-7-1993)
   (B)   Bills for water, sewer and garbage shall be due and payable within ten
(10) days of mailing. Any bill not paid by the twenty fifth of the month shall
be delinquent. Any bill that becomes delinquent shall incur an automatic
fifteen dollar ($15.00) delinquency charge. In the event the past due amount
and delinquency fee is not paid by the fifteenth day of the following month,
the water service shall be terminated forthwith.
   (C)   If the water supply to any building, dwelling, residence, or any place
where water supplied by the City is used, has been shut off because of
nonpayment, the water supply shall not be restored until all amounts which are
due and owing for previously provided water services together with any current
charges have been paid and a reconnection fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00)
has been paid to the City. (Ord. 364, 9-18-2017)
   (D)   After any water supply has been disconnected for nonpayment, no
person, except the City Public Works Superintendent or a person duly authorized
by him, shall reconnect said water supply. Any person who reconnects any water
supply after the same has been disconnected shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and punished by the laws of the State. Should any unauthorized person reconnect
any water supply, in violation of this chapter, the City shall have the right
to immediately and without notice remove the water meter to any building,
structure or premises supplied thereby. (Ord. 209, 6-7-1993)
3-3-10: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ACCOUNTS AND WRITE OFFS:
   (A)   Owner Liable: The owner of each building connected to the water and
sewer system shall be deemed primarily liable for the payment of water and
sewer billings. Pursuant to arrangements with the owner, a tenant may pay such
charges and reduce the owner's liability by the amount of any such payment.
Acceptance by the City of such payment from a tenant shall not constitute a
waiver by the City of the owner's primary liability for charges not paid by the
tenant. Any arrangements made between the tenant and the owner shall have no
effect on the City and the City shall not incur any liability to the owner for
not disconnecting the water service in the event of nonpayment by the tenant.
   (B)   Billing Address: It shall be the responsibility of the owner to keep
the City informed as to an address where the water and sewer billing should be
sent in the event of nonpayment by the tenant. (Ord. 181, 6-15-1987; amd. Ord.
353, 11-7-2016)
   (C)   Write Off Accounts: Writing off a delinquent account shall not act as
a forgiveness of the underlying obligation. Notwithstanding any other section
of this Code nor any other remedy permitted by State Statute or City ordinance,
in the event a water or sewer user fails to pay a water or sewer bill and
allows the bill to become delinquent, in addition to any other remedies
provided by law, the City shall have the following remedies: 1) the City may
turn the account over to a collection agency for collection; 2) the City may
attach the unpaid obligation to a different water or sewer account in the
ratepayer's name, whether the account is in existence or subsequently created
and continue to bill the original account; 3) refuse to offer new water or
sewer services to the ratepayer until the account is paid in full. (Ord. 353,
11-7-2016)
3-3-11: WATER USER'S FEE:
   (A)   There shall be and this does establish a user's fee to be set by
resolution for single-family dwellings, multi-family dwellings and for
commercial and industrial hookups. That charge shall be added to every water
bill of all persons receiving water services from the City.
   (B)   The purpose of the user's fee shall be to purchase materials,
including, but not limited to, pipes, valves and other material which may be
necessary or convenient for the improvement or replacement of portions of the
presently existing water system. Such cost shall include labor and installation
as replacement or repair may be needed.
   (C)   The monies collected from the user's fee shall be accounted for
separately and funds from that account may be used only for the specific
purpose set forth herein, unless additional funds may be obtained through
private, State or governmental grants for the improvement of the City water
system. (Ord. 364, 9-18-2017)
3-3-12: SEPARATE METER REQUIREMENT:
Every residential or commercial unit or portion thereof for which there is
generated a billing for a water user therein, shall be served by its own water
meter. Each unit shall then be billed separately for its individual water
usage. In the event a property owner chooses not to install a water meter to
meet the requirements of this section, then the property owner shall be
responsible for payment of the water billing. (Ord. 258, 10-18-1999)
3-3-13: FIRE HYDRANTS:
   (A)   It is unlawful to open, operate, activate or draw water from a fire
hydrant belonging to the City unless the fire hydrant is being operated by a
fire crew suppressing a fire or a fire crew in training or unless the person
operating the fire hydrant has first received written permission from the
Public Works Superintendent of the City of New Plymouth.
   (B)   Water drawn from a fire hydrant or bulk water dispenser shall be
metered and charged for as follows:
 
Resident/agriculture use $ 2.00/1,000 gallons
Resident/commercial use  5.00/1,000 gallons
Any other use            10.00/1,000 gallons
 
   (C)   Any person who violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and punished in accordance with the misdemeanor laws of the State of Idaho.
(Ord. 334, 6-20-2011)
TITLE IV
BUILDING REGULATIONS
***** CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE *****
SECTION:
4-1-1: Adoption Of Codes
4-1-2: Building Permits
4-1-3: Permit Fees
4-1-4: Penalty
4-1-1: ADOPTION OF CODES:
The following codes as adopted by the State of Idaho are adopted as the
official Building Codes of the City of New Plymouth, Idaho:
   (A)   International Building Code: The International Building Code, 2018
edition, prepared by the International Code Council, Inc., as adopted by the
State of Idaho or the Idaho Building Code Board, together with any amendments
or revisions to the International Building Code made by the Idaho Building Code
Board through the negotiated rulemaking process;
   (B)   Idaho Residential Code: The Idaho Residential Code, 2018 edition,
prepared by the International Code Council, Inc., as adopted by the State of
Idaho or the Idaho Building Code Board, and amended by the Idaho Building Code
Board through the negotiated rulemaking process;
   (C)   International Energy Conservation Code: The International Energy
Conservation Code, 2018 edition, prepared by the International Code Council,
Inc., together with any amendments or revisions to the International Energy
Conservation Code made by the Idaho Building Code Board through the negotiated
rulemaking process;
   (D)   International Mechanical Code: The 2018 version of the International
Mechanical Code;
   (E)   International Fire Code: The 2015 version of the International Fire
Code;
   (F)   Manufactured Home Installation Standards: The current version of the
State of Idaho, Division of Building Safety, manufactured home installation
standards, together with appendices thereto;
   (G)   Public Works Construction: The current version of the "Idaho Standards
for Public Works Construction", together with any amendments, changes,
modifications, appendices or successor codes thereto;
   (H)   National Electrical Code: The latest edition of the National
Electrical Code as adopted by the state of Idaho; and
   (I)   International Plumbing Code: The 2018 International Plumbing Code as
adopted by the state of Idaho.
The above set out codes are hereby adopted by the City of New Plymouth to
provide for the regulations set forth herein and to provide for the issuance of
permits and collection of fees therefor. Copies of those documents are on file
in the Office of the City Clerk and by reference are hereby made a part of this
Code as if set out in full verbatim. Any violation shall be subject to the
penalties set forth in section
4-1-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 371, 2-5-2018; amd. Ord. 408, 12-21- 2020)
4-1-2: BUILDING PERMITS:
No person shall commence construction on any structure or building having a
roof supported by columns, poles or walls and designed or intended for shelter,
support, enclosure, or protection of persons, animals, or chattels, of two
hundred (200) square feet or greater, until that person has first secured a
building permit from the City building official, City Clerk or the designated
official and has paid the required fee for the permit.
No person shall commence construction on, set, erect or install any structure,
building or edifice which requires location on the ground or attachment to
something having a fixed location on the ground, portable or nonportable, until
that person has first obtained or has first secured a building permit from the
City building official, City Clerk or the designated official and has paid the
required fee for the permit. Structures include, but are not limited to, mobile
homes, modular homes, carports, walls, billboards, houses, awnings,
outbuildings and communication towers. (Ord. 339, 3-3-2014)
4-1-3: PERMIT FEES 1 :
Any application for a permit shall be accompanied by a fee established in
accordance with a schedule adopted by a resolution of the City Council. No
permit shall become effective until the required fee is paid. (Ord. 248, 6-15-
1998; amd. Ord. 339, 3-3-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. The schedule of permit fees can be found on file in the City Clerk's
  Office.
4-1-4: PENALTY:
In addition to any penalties provided for within the Building Code or any other
adopted code, the City specifically sets forth the following additional
penalties and provisions:
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of the
code shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and each such person shall be
deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof
during which any violation of any of the provisions of the code is committed,
continued, or permitted and upon conviction of any such violation such person
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable in accordance with the general
misdemeanor statutes of the State of Idaho.
   (B)   Should it be necessary for the City to enforce any of the provisions
of this chapter, all costs incurred in enforcement shall be borne by the person
or persons violating this chapter, jointly or severally with the owner of the
property upon which the construction is taking place. Costs shall include:
costs of notice, repair, removal, court costs and attorney fees. (Ord. 371, 2-
5-2018)
***** CHAPTER 2
PLUMBING CODE *****
(Rep. by Ord. 248, 6-15-1998)
***** CHAPTER 3
ELECTRICAL CODE *****
(Rep. by Ord. 248, 6-15-1998)
***** CHAPTER 4
GAS REGULATIONS *****
(Rep. by Ord. 377, 6-4-2018)
***** CHAPTER 5
FENCES *****
SECTION:
4-5-1: Construction; General Requirements
4-5-2: Fences On Boundary Lines
4-5-3: Violation; Removal
4-5-4: Enforcement; Costs
4-5-1: CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
Residents of the City shall be allowed to construct fences in front yards,
provided those fences conform to the requirements of this Code.
   (A)   Wire fences shall not be constructed of barbed wire, woven wire, hog
wire, chicken wire, mesh wire, electric fencing wire, or any single wire or
woven wire pattern which is not generally recognized by community standards as
being residential front-yard fencing.
   (B)   Fences shall not be constructed of plastic, wood or metal panelling,
or of any material which is not generally recognized by community standards as
being residential fencing material. (Ord. 133, 7-2-1979, eff. 7-12-1979)
   (C)   Metal chainlink or woven wire fencing shall be allowed, provided such
fencing:
      1.   Is not over four feet (4') in height;
      2.   Does not cross a sidewalk or a City easement;
      3.   Does not interfere with automobile operator's visibility along a
public street;
      4.   Does not create a blind spot at the intersection of a private drive
and a public street;
      5.   Does not interfere with visibility at the intersection of public
roadways;
      6.   Is no smaller than eleven and one-half (111/2) gauge, but no larger
than nine (9) gauge wire. (Ord. 228, 2-18-1997)
   (D)   Wooden fencing shall be allowed, provided such fencing:
      1.   Is recognized in the community as material which is generally used
for privacy or decorative fencing;
      2.   Does not exceed three feet (3') in height;
      3.   Does not cross a sidewalk or City easement;
      4.   Does not interfere with automobile operator's visibility along a
public street;
      5.   Does not interfere with visibility at the intersection of a private
drive and a public roadway;
      6.   Does not interfere with visibility at the intersection of public
roadways.
   (E)   All fences permitted by this Chapter shall be kept in good order and
repair and shall not be allowed to become run-down or in such a state of
disrepair as to constitute a private or public nuisance.
   (F)   All fences permitted by this Chapter shall be kept free of tall weeds
and grasses.
   (G)   No fence permitted by this Chapter and constructed after its adoption
shall be used as evidence to establish a boundary line, unless said fence was
placed upon a boundary line designated by a licensed surveyor of the State of
Idaho, after a survey has been conducted and the boundary line established
thereby. (Ord. 133, 7-2-1979, eff. 7-12-1979)
4-5-2: FENCES ON BOUNDARY LINES:
A person who places a fence on a boundary line, or his successor or tenant,
shall be solely responsible for its maintenance and upkeep, but shall not
acquire any rights to trespass on adjoining lands to maintain the same, unless
the fence has been set back at least three feet (3') from the property line.
Setting a fence back pursuant to this Chapter in order that the same may be
properly maintained shall not be construed as forfeiting any property to
adjoining landowners in the event any suit is filed for taking by adverse
possession or under a similar theory. (Ord. 133, 7-2-1979, eff. 7-12-1979)
4-5-3: VIOLATION; REMOVAL:
Any fence which is constructed in such a manner as to be in violation of this
Chapter, or any fence which is allowed to become in violation after
construction, shall be subject to removal in accordance with the following
terms:
   (A)   Any fence which is being constructed in such a manner so that, upon
completion, the fence would violate this Chapter, shall be subject to
injunctive action.
   (B)   Any fence which is constructed in violation of this Chapter shall be
subject to removal by the City, if after ten (10) days' notice, mailed by
regular mail to either the landowner, a tenant or occupant of the premises, the
violation has not been eliminated or the fence removed.
   (C)   Any fence which shall fall into a state of disrepair so as to
constitute a public or private nuisance shall be subject to repair or removal,
if ten (10) days after notice has been mailed, as above, the condition has not
been corrected.
   (D)   Any fence which has been constructed in such a manner so that it
obstructs the visibility of drivers at intersections on public roadways shall
be subject to immediate removal, without notice of any kind. (Ord. 133, 7-2-
1979, eff. 7-12-1979)
4-5-4: ENFORCEMENT; COSTS:
Should it be necessary to enforce any provisions of this Chapter, all costs
incurred shall be borne by the property owner, tenant or occupant, jointly or
severally. Costs shall include costs of notice, removal, repair, cleaning,
court costs and attorney fees. (Ord. 133, 7-2-1979, eff. 7-12-1979)
***** CHAPTER 6
DEMOLITION OR DESTRUCTION OF BUILDINGS *****
SECTION:
4-6-1: Purpose
4-6-2: Permits Required
4-6-3: Demolition Of Buildings
4-6-4: Violation And Penalty
4-6-5: Appeal
4-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide certain minimum standards and
requirements to safeguard public welfare, health, and safety by regulating and
controlling the demolition or destruction of buildings and structures. (Ord.
333, 7-1-2011)
4-6-2: PERMITS REQUIRED:
   (A)   Prohibited: Without first securing a permit from the building official
it shall be unlawful to demolish or destroy any building, structure or part of
a building or structure.
   (B)   Application: All applications for permits shall contain such
information as may be deemed necessary to safeguard public welfare, health and
safety during the demolition or destruction of structures or portions of
structures on public and private property and to ensure compliance with all
applicable code requirements. The applications shall be on a form provided by
the city clerk.
   (C)   Exception: Property owners of single-family dwellings who are
personally demolishing their home or nonattached, accessory buildings are
exempt from payment of the application fee or from the bonding requirements of
this chapter. (Ord. 333, 7-1-2011)
4-6-3: DEMOLITION OF BUILDINGS:
A demolition or destruction shall include any full or partial demolition work.
All applications to demolish any building or structure on any lot or parcel of
ground in the city of New Plymouth shall comply with all of the following prior
to any demolition work occurring:
   (A)   Application Prior To Actual Demolition Or Destruction: Prior to actual
demolition or destruction the applicant shall submit for and secure a
demolition permit; and
      1.   Pay A Fee: The applicant shall pay to the city clerk a one hundred
dollar ($100.00) demolition permit fee.
      2.   Post Bond: A bond shall be required to ensure that in the default of
the applicant, the property can be returned to its bare state, free of safety
hazards and construction debris at the completion of the demolition of any
structure(s). The permit applicant shall deposit and file a bond with the city
clerk.
         (a)   Amount Of Bond: A bond shall be kept and maintained in force and
effect until all of the scope of work of the permit is completed and the
property is in a proper and safe condition after the structure is demolished.
All combustible and noncombustible debris or material shall be cleared away and
any remaining excavation is filled into ground level. The bond amount shall be
established in an amount equal to the estimated cost to demolish any existing
structures and return the land to its bare state. In the event the applicant
fails to perform the duties and responsibilities imposed by this subsection,
the bond shall be forfeited and utilized and in an amount necessary to complete
the duties and responsibilities of the applicant. Any funds remaining from the
bond after it is utilized to perform the outstanding work on the permit shall
be returned to the applicant.
   (B)   Notification: Prior to demolition the permit applicant shall certify
to the city clerk that arrangements have been or will be made with the owner of
utilities and adjacent property(ies) for the protection of such facilities when
it is necessary to cut, repair, remove, raise or replace any cable, wires,
piping or any objects whether they are publicly or privately owned that may
interfere with the demolition of such building or structure; and
   (C)   Debris Removal: All debris or material shall be removed from the
premises on which the demolition is carried out within thirty (30) calendar
days from the completion of the demolition, or from the stoppage of the work
thereon if the work remains uncompleted, unless the building official extends
the time therefor because of weather, terrain, or other special circumstances,
but such extension shall not exceed ninety (90) calendar days. It is unlawful
for any owner or person in possession of real property to permit the debris to
remain on the property without disposal. Any debris remaining thirty (30)
calendar days after the completion of the demolition work or from stoppage of
work without an approved extension by the city shall constitute a public
nuisance. Any unsupported portions of a building or structure or debris
existing beyond the periods set forth above shall be subject to abatement by
the city. Buildings or structures demolished upon any lot or parcel without
valid permits shall be subject to abatement as determined by mayor and council
in accordance with the provisions set forth in title 50, chapter 3 of the Idaho
Code.
   (D)   Foundations: After removal of any structure, all foundations that will
not be utilized in any new or future permitted construction shall be removed
and all excavations filled in to the level of the adjoining grade.
   (E)   Existing Parking Surfaces: Existing asphalt and concrete parking
surfaces adjacent to or surrounding the removed structure(s) shall be allowed
to remain.
   (F)   Abatement: Demolition of buildings or structures begun without valid
permits shall be subject to abatement as determined by mayor and council in
accordance with the provisions set forth in title 50, chapter 3 of the Idaho
Code. Buildings or structures under demolition without valid permits shall be
immediately secured with a six foot (6') high construction fence constructed of
wood, metal chainlink or any other materials as approved by the building
official. If secured by the city, the city shall also levy a special assessment
on the parcel to defray the cost or reimburse the city for the costs associated
with fence construction or any additional security requirements that were
required by the city of the property owner. (Ord. 333, 7-1-2011)
4-6-4: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
   (A)   Criminal Penalties: Any person, firm or corporation violating the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon
conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of not more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00), by imprisonment for not more than one hundred eighty (180)
days or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each separate day or any portion
thereof during which any violation of this chapter occurs or continues shall be
deemed to constitute a separate offense, and upon conviction thereof shall be
punishable as herein provided.
   (B)   Civil Penalties: Any person, firm or corporation violating any
provision of this chapter may have civil penalties assessed against them. A new
violation may be filed for each day the violation continues. The violation will
have a date when the violation continues. The violation will have a date when
the violation shall be paid by; if it is not paid by that date, the city shall
pursue collections through court and will ask the court to reimburse for all
costs and fees associated with collecting the penalty. Any person who violates
any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a civil penalty of not more
than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for the first offense and a civil penalty of
not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense thereafter.
(Ord. 333, 7-1-2011)
4-6-5: APPEAL:
Any person, firm or corporation aggrieved by any action or decision of the city
arising out of the enforcement of this chapter may appeal the same to the city
council. Such appeal shall be made in writing and must be filed with the city
clerk within ten (10) calendar days after the action or decision which is the
subject of the appeal. (Ord. 333, 7-1-2011)
TITLE V
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
***** CHAPTER 1
LICENSES *****
SECTION:
5-1-1: Application
5-1-2: Person Subject to License
5-1-3: Forms
5-1-4: Signatures
5-1-5: Investigations
5-1-6: Termination of License
5-1-7: Building and Premises
5-1-8: Change of Location
5-1-9: Frontage Consents
5-1-10: Nuisances
5-1-11: Inspections
5-1-12: Revocation
5-1-13: Posting of License
5-1-14: Fees
5-1-15: License Nontransferable
5-1-1: APPLICATION:
Applications for all licenses and permits required by this Code shall be made
in writing to the Clerk, unless otherwise specifically provided by law. Each
application shall state the name of the applicant, the permit or license
desired, the location to be used, if any, the time covered and the fee to be
paid; and each application shall contain such additional information as may be
required by the issuing official.
5-1-2: PERSON SUBJECT TO LICENSE:
Whenever in this Code a license is required for the maintenance, operation or
conduct of any business or establishment, or for doing business or engaging in
any activity or occupation, any person or corporation shall be subject to the
requirement if by himself or through an agent, employee or partner, he holds
himself forth as being engaged in the business or occupation; or solicits
patronage therefor, actively or passively; or performs or attempts to perform
any part of such business or occupation in the Municipality.
5-1-3: FORMS:
Forms for all licenses and permits, and application therefor, shall be prepared
and kept on file by the Clerk.
5-1-4: SIGNATURES:
Each license or permit issued, in the absence of any provision to the contrary,
shall bear the signatures of the Mayor and the Clerk.
5-1-5: INVESTIGATIONS:
Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit where laws of the
Municipality necessitate an inspection or investigation before the issuance of
such permit or license, the Clerk shall refer such application to the proper
officer for making such investigation within forty eight (48) hours of the time
of such receipt. The officer charged with the duty of making the investigation
or inspection shall make a report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten
(10) days after receiving the application or a copy thereof. The Health Officer
shall make or cause to be made an inspection in regard to such licenses in the
connection of the care and handling of food and the preventing of nuisances and
the spread of disease. For the protection of health, the Building Inspector
shall make or cause to be made any such inspection relative to the construction
of buildings or other structures. All other investigations, except where
otherwise provided, shall be made by the Chief of Police or by some other
officer designated by the Mayor.
5-1-6: TERMINATION OF LICENSE:
All annual licenses shall terminate on the last day of the fiscal year of the
Municipality where no provision to the contrary is made.
The Clerk shall mail to all licensees of the Municipality a statement of the
time of expiration of the license held by the licensee, if an annual, three (3)
weeks prior to the date of such expiration. Provided, that failure to send out
such notice, or failure of the licensee to receive it shall not excuse the
licensee from failure to obtain a new license, or a renewal thereof, nor shall
it be a defense in an action for operation without a license.
5-1-7: BUILDING AND PREMISES:
No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business, and no permit shall
be issued for any thing, or act, if the premises and building to be used for
the purpose do not fully comply with the requirements of the Municipality. No
such license or permit shall be issued for the conduct of any business or
performance of any act which would involve a violation of the Zoning Act of the
Municipality.
5-1-8: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
In the absence of any provision to the contrary, the location of any licensed
business or occupation, or of any permitted act, may be changed provided ten
(10) days' notice thereof is given to the Clerk; provided, the building, zoning
and frontage consent requirements of this Code are complied with.
5-1-9: FRONTAGE CONSENTS:
Whenever the consent of the adjoining or neighboring owners is required as a
prerequisite to the conduct of any business or occupation, or the location of
any establishment, such consent must be obtained by securing the necessary
signatures to a written consent petition. Such petition shall be filed with the
Clerk when signed.
Consents once given and filed shall not be withdrawn; and such petitions need
not be renewed for the continuous conduct of the same business, whether by the
same proprietor or not.
It shall be unlawful to forge any name to such a petition or to represent
falsely that the names thereon have been properly placed thereon if such is not
the fact.
Each consent when filed shall be accompanied by the affidavit of the person
securing the signatures that each signature appearing therein was properly
secured and written on; and that the petition contains the necessary number of
signatures required by this Code.
The frontage consent requirements contained in this Code shall not be construed
to amend or change any zoning ordinance provision of the Municipality; and no
such provision shall be construed as permitting the erection of a structure or
building, or the conduct of a business or the commission of any act in any
location where such structure, building, business or act is or are prohibited
by any zoning ordinance of the Municipality.
5-1-10: NUISANCES:
No business, licensed or not, shall be so conducted or operated as to amount to
a nuisance in fact.
5-1-11: INSPECTIONS:
Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with the
operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required by
Code, or are reasonably necessary to secure compliance with any Code provision
or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee, or the
person in charge of the premises to be inspected, to admit thereto for the
purpose of making the inspection any officer or employee of the Municipality
who is authorized or directed to make such inspection at any reasonable time
that admission is requested.
Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably necessary to
secure conformance with any Code provision or to detect violations thereof, it
shall be the duty of the licensee of the Municipality whose business is
governed by such provision to give to any authorized officer or employee of the
Municipality requesting the same sufficient samples of such material or
commodity for such analysis upon request.
In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the Mayor may revoke
the license of any licensed proprietor of any licensed business in the
Municipality who refuses to permit any such officer or employee who is
authorized to make such inspection or take such sample to make the inspection,
or take an adequate sample of the said commodity, or who interferes with such
officer or employee while in the performance of his duty in making such
inspection. Provided, that no license shall be revoked for such cause unless
written demand is made upon the licensee or person in charge of the premises,
in the name of the Municipality, stating that such inspection or sample is
desired at the time it is sought to make the inspection or obtain the sample.
5-1-12: REVOCATION:
Any license or permit issued for a limited time may be revoked by the Mayor at
any time for any violation by the licensee or permittee of the Code provisions
relating to the license or permit, the subject matter of the license or permit,
or to the premises occupied; such revocation may be in addition to any fine
imposed.
5-1-13: POSTING OF LICENSE:
It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the
Municipality to keep his license posted at all times in a prominent place on
the premises used for such business. (1960 Code)
5-1-14: FEES:
In the absence of specific provisions to the contrary, all fees and charges for
licenses or permits shall be paid to the Clerk in advance at the time
application therefor is made. When an applicant has not engaged in the business
until after the expiration of more than six (6) months of the current license
year the license fee shall be in the sum of one-half (1/2) of the fee specified
for the entire year. All license fees shall be deposited to the General Fund.
Licenses shall be required for the following activities and business upon
payment of the fee indicated for the specified time. All applicants shall also
provide adequate restroom facilities, security and a clean-up fee when
required:
Menageries                       Day     $ 5.00
Carnivals                        Week    100.00
Exhibitions of Inanimate Objects Day     5.00
Other Amusements                 Day     10.00
Bowling Alley                    Quarter 15.00
Auctioneers                      Day     5.00
Public Dances                    Day or  15.00
                                Annual  100.00
 
The Mayor and the City Council under the provisions of this Chapter shall have
the right and it shall be their duty to deny and/or revoke any license or
permit, or waive any fee for its issuance when in their judgment it is to the
good of the public health, safety and welfare.
5-1-15: LICENSE NONTRANSFERABLE:
No license issued or granted under the provisions of this Chapter shall in any
manner be assignable or transferable. (Ord. 193, 6-5-89)
***** CHAPTER 2
BILL POSTING AND HANDBILLS *****
SECTION:
5-2-1: License Required
5-2-2: Application
5-2-3: Littering Public Thoroughfares Prohibited
5-2-4: No Posting on Fences; Telegraph Poles; Consent For
5-2-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the distribution or attaching
of any signs, bills, pictures or advertising matter unless the person shall
first have obtained a license therefor.
5-2-2: APPLICATION:
Application for a license shall be made to the Clerk, together with all
necessary information including but not limited to the names of all owners and
the business addresses of the same. Upon approval of said application by the
Governing Body the Clerk shall issue a license for which a fee of twenty-five
dollars ($25.00) per annum shall be paid.
5-2-3: LITTERING PUBLIC THOROUGHFARES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to scatter or throw upon the public
thoroughfares any handbills, poster, advertisements or papers. Nothing herein
shall be construed to authorize any person to obstruct the public thoroughfares
or create any nuisance therein. These provisions shall not interfere or prevent
the posting of notices required by law to be posted.
5-2-4: NO POSTING ON FENCES; TELEGRAPH POLES; CONSENT FOR:
It shall be unlawful for any person to post, paint, tack or otherwise attach
any notice or other advertising matter to any fence, wall or building or other
property until first obtaining the consent of the owner of such property. It
shall be unlawful for any person to post, paint, tack or otherwise attach any
notices or advertising matter to any telegraph, telephone, electric or other
such poles.
***** CHAPTER 3
MOTELS *****
SECTION:
5-3-1: Building Permit Required
5-3-2: Service Station Restrictions
5-3-3: Parking Space on Premises
5-3-4: Minimum Requirements
5-3-5: Existing Standards
5-3-6: Application to Include Plan
5-3-7: Guests Required to Register
5-3-1: BUILDING PERMIT REQUIRED:
Before construction of a motel is started, an application for a permit for such
construction shall be submitted to the Clerk. The Clerk shall present such
application to the Governing Body for its approval. Only after approval of the
Governing Body shall a permit for construction of a motel be issued.
5-3-2: SERVICE STATION RESTRICTIONS:
Automobile service stations shall be located no closer than fifty feet (50') to
any motel.
5-3-3: PARKING SPACE ON PREMISES:
Each unit of a motel or tourist court shall be provided with an assigned
parking space entirely on the premises.
5-3-4: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
The minimum space for each unit shall be twelve feet by twenty feet (12' X 20')
and shall contain one (1) full bath, toilet facilities, dressing compartment
and sleeping room.
5-3-5: EXISTING STANDARDS:
The plumbing, heating and ventilation components shall meet all local fire,
plumbing and building code requirements.
5-3-6: APPLICATION TO INCLUDE PLAN:
Each application for a motel or tourist court shall be submitted with a
complete plan, including the plot plan and adjacent buildings, parking
arrangement and driveways, unit sizes, plumbing and heating layout, accessory
uses, materials to be used, front and rear elevations and architectural design.
5-3-7: GUESTS REQUIRED TO REGISTER:
Every operator of a motel shall maintain a register in which each guest shall
register his name, home address and license number of the vehicle in which he
is traveling. The date of his arrival and departure shall also be recorded.
Such register shall be available to any authorized person inspecting the motel
and shall be preserved for a period of not less than one (1) year.
***** CHAPTER 4
HOTEL *****
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definition
5-4-2: Fire Protection Equipment
5-4-3: Maintenance of Equipment
5-4-4: Inspection
5-4-5: Hotel Register
5-4-1: DEFINITION:
Every building maintained or advertised as a public lodging house or where more
than six (6) rooms are provided for sleeping accommodations shall be known as a
hotel.
5-4-2: FIRE PROTECTION EQUIPMENT:
The Fire Chief, or other officer designated by the Governing Body, shall survey
each hotel and specify suitable fire detecting devices or extinguishing
appliances which shall be provided.
5-4-3: MAINTENANCE OF EQUIPMENT:
Fire protective or extinguishing systems or appliances which have been
installed in compliance with any permit or order, or according to any
provisions of this Code, shall be maintained in operative condition at all
times and it shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant to reduce the
effectiveness of the protection so required.
5-4-4: INSPECTION:
It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief and the Health Officer, or other
officers so designated by the Governing Body, to make periodic and regular
inspections of every hotel and to make regular reports to the Governing Body of
such hotel or hotels concerning regulations imposed by this Code.
5-4-5: HOTEL REGISTER:
A register shall be maintained at every hotel and each guest shall be required
to register his name and home address. The date of arrival and departure shall
be clearly indicated and the register shall be maintained for a period of at
least one (1) year following registration. The register shall be open for
inspection to any authorized person.
***** CHAPTER 5
POOL, BILLIARD HALLS AND CARD ROOMS *****
SECTION:
5-5-1: License Required
5-5-2: Fees
5-5-3: Minors
5-5-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to operate, maintain
or conduct a billiard, pool or bagatelle or pigeonhole table open to the public
without having first obtained a license therefor as is herein required. All
applications for such licenses shall state thereon the intended location of the
place of business and the number of tables to be used therein.
5-5-2: FEES:
Before a license shall be issued to any person to operate or open a billiard,
pool or card hall or room, said person shall pay to the Clerk a license fee of
twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per quarter for one (1) card table, and five
dollars ($5.00) per quarter for each additional card table; and five dollars
($5.00) per quarter for each pool or billiard table. Said license shall expire
on the last day of each quarter. The license issued under the provisions of
this Chapter shall be nontransferable.
5-5-3: MINORS:
Minors under the age of sixteen (16) years shall under no circumstances
frequent, loiter, go or remain in any hall licensed hereunder at any time,
unless it be upon some lawful errand under the direction and the consent and
knowledge of the parent, guardian or other person having lawful custody of such
minor; and it shall be unlawful for the proprietor of any hall so licensed to
allow or permit any such minor to frequent, loiter or remain within the hall in
violation of this Section.
***** CHAPTER 6
SOLICITORS *****
SECTION:
5-6-1: Definition
5-6-2: License Required; Exceptions
5-6-3: Revocation of License
5-6-4: Receipts
5-6-5: License Fees
5-6-6: Where Soliciting Prohibited
5-6-7: Exhibition of License Required
5-6-1: DEFINITION:
A solicitor, within the meaning of this Chapter, is defined to be any person
who goes from house to house, or from place to place, within the City taking
orders for, or offering to take orders for goods, wares, or merchandise, or any
article for immediate or future delivery, or for services to be performed
immediately or in the future, or for the making, manufacturing or repairing of
any article or thing whatsoever, immediately or for future delivery. (1960
Code)
5-6-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation acting as peddlers, or
any person to act as a solicitor within the meaning and application of this
Chapter without first securing a license so to do, from the Clerk.
The exceptions from the provisions of this Chapter are traveling salesmen doing
business as representatives of established firms and selling wholesale to
establish business within the corporate limits of the City, Boy Scouts, Girl
Scouts, representatives of properly chartered service clubs and authorized
representatives of bonafide school organizations. The exception of newspapers
does not include magazines and periodicals. Also excepted are persons who
fulfill the qualifications of a legal voter in general elections in the City.
(1960 Code; amd. Ord. 154, 2-7-83, eff. 2-16-83)
5-6-3: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Permits and licenses issued under the provisions of this Chapter may be revoked
by the Clerk for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for license.
   (B)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on his business as solicitor or canvasser.
   (C)   Any violation of this Chapter.
   (D)   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.
   (E)   Conducting the business of soliciting, or of canvassing, in an
unlawful manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the public.
5-6-4: RECEIPTS:
All orders taken by a licensed solicitor shall be in writing in duplicate,
stating the terms thereof, and the amount paid in advance, and one copy shall
be given to the purchasers at the time of the taking of said order.
5-6-5: LICENSE FEES:
Solicitors as defined herein shall be subject to the following license fees,
payable to the City:
   Daily      $ 5.00
   Weekly   15.00
   Monthly   25.00
   Yearly      100.00
5-6-6: WHERE SOLICITING PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in the business of soliciting, as
defined by this Chapter, or any person pretending to be a solicitor, to ring
the bell or knock at the door of any residence or dwelling bearing the sign "No
Solicitors", or solicit or pretend to solicit in any building wherein or
whereon the words "No Solicitors" or words of similar import are painted or
affixed so as to be exposed to public view.
5-6-7: EXHIBITION OF LICENSE REQUIRED:
Solicitors and canvassers are required to exhibit their license at the request
of any citizen.
It shall be the duty of any police officer to require any person seen
soliciting or canvassing, and who is not known by such officer to be duly
licensed, to produce his solicitor's or canvasser's license and to enforce the
provisions of this Chapter against any person found to be violating the same.
***** CHAPTER 7
LIQUOR AND BEER *****
SECTION:
5-7-1: License, Fee, Period
5-7-2: Investigation of Applicants
5-7-3: Designated Location
5-7-4: Failure to Renew License
5-7-1: LICENSE, FEE, PERIOD:
All licenses shall be granted by the Mayor and Council for a period of one year
beginning January 1 and ending December 31. A full year's license fee shall be
collected after January 1. The City Council shall grant or deny the application
within thirty (30) days of the time it is filed with the City Clerk. Prior to
any revocation or suspension, the licensee shall be afforded a hearing
according to section 23-1016, Idaho Code. Whenever the Mayor and City Council
denies an application, they shall specify in writing:
   (A)   The statutes, ordinances and standards used in evaluating the
application;
   (B)   The reason for the denial; and
   (C)   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain the
license, transfer or renewal thereof.
In all cases where the City Council is considering applications for licenses,
transfers, or renewals thereof, a transcribable verbatim record of the
proceedings shall be made. If the applicant for a license, transfer or renewal
is denied, a transcribable, verbatim record of the proceedings shall be kept
for a period of not less than six (6) months after a final decision on the
matter. Upon written request and within the time period provided for retention
of the record, any person may have the record transcribed at his expense. The
City Council shall also provide for the keeping of the minutes of the
proceedings. Minutes shall be retained indefinitely or as otherwise provided by
law.
5-7-2: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANTS:
No license shall be granted hereunder until there has been an investigation by
the Police Department of all applicants hereunder. After investigation, the
applications will be forwarded to the City Council with a recommendation from
the Chief of Police. If the Chief of Police recommended that an application be
denied, he shall state in writing:
   (A)   The statutes or ordinances and standards used in evaluating the
application;
   (B)   The reason for the denial; and
   (C)   The action, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain the
license, transfer or renewal thereof.
5-7-3: DESIGNATED LOCATION:
All licenses issued pursuant to this Chapter shall be for use at a designated
location as specified in the application which is submitted by the applicant.
The location shall not be changed except by application, hearing and
modification of the license in accordance with the procedures hereinbefore set
forth.
5-7-4: FAILURE TO RENEW LICENSE:
In the event that any license is not submitted in time for renewal, any person
holding a license which shall lapse because of nonrenewal shall not be allowed
to sell, display or advertise for sale any substance for which the license is
required for the privilege or right to sell the substance. (Ord. 161, 3-5-84)
***** CHAPTER 8
AUTOMATIC DRY CLEANING MACHINES *****
SECTION
5-8-1: Definition
5-8-2: License Required; Permit
5-8-3: Installation Regulations
5-8-4: Operation Regulations
5-8-5: Inspections
5-8-6: Compliance Required
5-8-1: DEFINITION:
For the purpose of this Chapter the following term shall having the meaning
respectively ascribed to it:
An "Automatic Dry Cleaning Machine" shall be construed to include and mean any
device or apparatus for the cleaning of clothes or fabrics, and designed to be
used or operated by any person but the owner, or an employee of the owner
thereof, which machine or device makes use of or contains perchlorethylene or
any other chemical solvent or substance which may cause harm to human beings by
reason of inhalation or contact.
5-8-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; PERMIT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to install any automatic dry cleaning
machine without first having secured a permit therefor. Applications for such
permit shall contain full information as to the mechanical equipment of such
machine and provisions for ventilation for both the machine and the room in
which the machine will be located. The fee for such permit shall be two dollars
fifty cents ($2.50) for each unit or machine.
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of maintaining
any such machine for use by the public upon payment of a fee, without having
first secured a license therefor. The annual fee for such license shall be
twenty-five dollars ($25.00) plus five dollars ($5.00) for each unit in
addition to five (5), maintained in any one (1) establishment.
5-8-3: INSTALLATION REGULATIONS:
Each machine shall be completely enclosed by a cabinet and shall be vented with
an intake at the top and the outlet at or near the bottom of such machine.
Groups of machines may be entirely enclosed or supported on all open sides by
an enclosure topped with a hood vented as provided for each individual machine.
The exhaust system must maintain a minimum flow of one hundred (100) cubic feet
per minute face velocity through the loading door whenever the door is open.
The discharge stack for the machines and for the room in which the machines are
located shall extend at least two feet (2') above the level of any window which
can be opened located within fifty feet (50') of the outlet of the stack, and
shall be at least fifty feet (50') away from any fresh air intake leading to
any premises.
The machines must be so constructed as to prevent the loading door from being
opened during the normal cycle of operation. Each machine shall be equipped
with a transparent door or port to allow visual examination of the status of
the cleaning cycle.
Any connection of such machine with the water supply system must be equipped
with an air gap or vacuum breaker in the line upstream from the condenser; with
no control valves downstream from such gap or breaker. Waste water shall be
discharged through an air gap.
The room in which such machine is installed shall be ventilated so that there
shall be a minimum flow of air per machine from the area to which the public is
admitted, of at least five hundred cubic feet (500 cu. ft.) per machine per
minute in a room where there are no more than three (3) machines installed four
hundred cubic feet (400 cu. ft.) per minute where there are no more than eight
(8) machines installed; three hundred seventy-five cubic feet (375 cu. ft.) per
minute where there are no more than sixteen (16) machines installed; and three
hundred sixty cubic feet (360 cu. ft.) per minute where there are more than
seventeen (17) machines installed. For this purpose each cleaning cell shall be
considered as one (1) machine.
Each machine must be so designed and constructed as to prevent the leakage of
liquids, gas or vapors.
5-8-4: OPERATION REGULATIONS:
No automatic dry cleaning machine shall be operated unless all the equipment
described in the above Section is properly installed and in good operating
working conditions.
No establishment for which a license is required under the provisions of this
Chapter shall be open for business, and it shall be unlawful to admit the
public or customers into the room where such machines are located unless there
is on duty in the establishment at all times a competent person in charge of
the establishment and in charge of the operation of such machines. There shall
be warning signs posted in places of easy observation warning of the dangers in
the event leakage of liquids, gas or vapor occurs. It shall be unlawful for any
person to permit any residue containing solvent to flow into the sewer system.
Tightly covered metal containers may be used for temporary storage of such
wastes outside of the building. Such containers shall bear labels indicating
the contents and dangers involved in handling, and shall be locked if in an
unenclosed place.
At least one (1) legible sign shall be maintained in a place available to
customers giving the name, address and phone number of the owner of the
establishment, and of the service department or agency responsible for the
proper maintenance of the machines.
5-8-5: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the Mayor to cause such inspections to be made as are
necessary to see to the enforcement of the provisions of this Chapter.
5-8-6: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to install, operate or maintain any
automatic dry cleaning machine except in compliance with the provisions of this
Chapter, or without complying with all of the provisions of this Code
pertaining to the installation and operation of such machines herein contained;
or in violation of any other provisions of this Code relating thereto. (1962
Code)
***** CHAPTER 9
NURSING HOMES *****
SECTION:
5-9-1: Definitions
5-9-2: License Required
5-9-3: Application for a License
5-9-4: Investigation
5-9-5: Issuance of License
5-9-6: Licenses; Terms
5-9-7: Refusal of License
5-9-8: Rules and Regulations
5-9-9: Records; Reports
5-9-10: Record of Employees
5-9-11: Inspection of Records
5-9-12: Inspections; Revocation of License
5-9-13: Compliance Required
5-9-14: Zoning Restrictions
5-9-15: Revocation of License
5-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivations shall have the meaning given herein:
"AGED:" The word "Aged" shall mean any person sixty-five (65) years of age or
over.
"APPLICANT:" The word "Applicant" shall mean a person that submits to the
Health Department an application for a license or the renewal of a license to
conduct, operate or maintain a nursing home under the provisions of this
Chapter.
"INMATE:" The word "Inmate" shall mean any person accommodated, cared for,
treated, hospitalized, or boarded in any nursing home.
"LICENSEE:" The word "Licensee" shall mean a person having a City license in
full force and effect issued hereunder for a nursing home.
"NURSING HOME:" The term "Nursing Home" shall mean any nursing home,
convalescent home, institution, home, place or facility for the accommodation,
care, hospitalization, treatment or boarding of one (1) or more aged, sick,
infirmed, convalescent, invalid, mentally ill, feeble-minded, incompetent,
decrepit, blind, disabled, injured, infected or chronically ill person, drug
addict, dipsomaniac, or inebriate, for which accommodation, care treatment,
boarding, or hospitalization a charge is made or compensation is required or
expected, whether by fee or gift; provided, however, that the accommodation,
care, treatment, hospitalization or boarding in a household or family, for
compensation or otherwise of a person related by blood to the head of such
household or family, or to his spouse, within and including the fourth degree
of consanguinity within the Law of this State, shall not be deemed to
constitute a nursing home within the meaning of this Chapter; provided,
further, that the provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to any nursing
home, hospital, clinic, treatment center, institution or other facility
operated or maintained by or under the jurisdiction of the State, any agency or
political subdivision of the State, or by any other public body or public
entity, or operation or maintained pursuant to State license or permit or State
supervision.
5-9-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct, operate or maintain or permit
to be conducted, operated or maintained, or to participate in the conduct,
maintenance or operation of a nursing home within the City unless the Health
Department has issued a valid license therefor which is in full force and
effect.
5-9-3: APPLICATION FOR A LICENSE:
Application for a license hereunder shall be made to the Health Department in
such form and manner as it may prescribe. The application shall include such
information and data respecting the nursing home for which the license is
requested as the Health Department may prescribe, including a description of
the facility and service and a statement of the personnel and program that are
to be used therefor.
5-9-4: INVESTIGATION:
Upon receipt of an application for a license hereunder, the Health Department
shall cause an investigation to be made of the activities, services and
facilities of the applicant, including the character, reputation, health and
qualifications of the applicant and members of the applicant's staff and of the
applicant's financial responsibility. The applicant shall afford the
representatives of the Health Department reasonable opportunity to inspect the
applicant's nursing home for which the license is requested, its books and
records and to interview the applicant's agents and employees and any inmate
within the care or custody of the applicant in such nursing home.
5-9-5: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Upon completion of such investigation the Health Department shall issue a City
license to the applicant for the nursing home when it finds and determines that
the applicant is adequately qualified and equipped to conduct, operate and
maintain the nursing home for which the license is to be issued; that such
nursing home conforms to the requirements of this Chapter; that it will be
operated and maintained in such manner as to be conducive to the benefit and
welfare of the inmates in such nursing home; that the applicant's financial
responsibility is such as to give reasonable assurance of the continued
operation and maintenance of such facility; and that the applicant and the
applicant's staff are of good character and reputation.
5-9-6: LICENSE; TERMS:
   (A)   Number of Inmates: The license when issued shall designate the maximum
number of inmates to be accommodated in the nursing home to which it applies
and this number shall at no time be exceeded.
   (B)   Expiration: Each license, whether an original or a renewal license,
shall expire at the end of one (1) year from the date of its issuance, which
date of expiration shall be stated upon its face, unless sooner revoked or
surrendered.
   (C)   Form and Transferability: The licenses shall be issued on forms
prescribed by the Health Department. Licenses shall not be transferable either
as to place or person.
   (D)   Provisional License: The Health Department may issue a provisional
license to any applicant for any period not to exceed six (6) months if the
applicant is temporarily unable to comply with all the requirements of this
Chapter. Such provisional license may be renewed but only for one (1)
additional period, not exceeding six (6) months, provided, the applicant has
made reasonable efforts to comply with such requirements.
   (E)   Delays: In the event of delay on the part of the Health Department to
take final action upon an application for a license within ninety (90) days
after submittal, it shall be lawful for the applicant to engage in the
operation of the nursing home for which the license has been applied for until
the Health Department has taken final action on the application and has
notified the applicant thereof.
   (F)   Fees: There shall be collected by the Health Department before the
issuance of any license or renewal license an annual fee of twenty-five dollars
($25.00) plus an additional fee of five dollars ($5.00) for each of the inmates
specified in the license, which fees shall be deposited with the Treasurer.
5-9-7: REFUSAL OF LICENSE:
The Health Department shall deny a license for a nursing home if it shall
appear to its satisfaction that the applicant, or if the applicant be a
corporation, any officer or person who is to be in charge of such nursing home,
has been convicted of a felony, or of a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude,
or has had inadequate training or experience in the care of inmates of the
nursing home.
5-9-8: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Health Department shall have the power and is hereby authorized to
promulgate such rules and regulations for the operation of nursing homes in the
City which it finds necessary or proper to carry out the intent of this
Chapter.
5-9-9: RECORDS; REPORTS:
Every licensee hereunder shall provide and maintain in such nursing home a
register in bound book form setting forth the following facts concerning each
inmate received, cared for or accommodated in such nursing home:
   (A)   Name.
   (B)   Last previous address.
   (C)   Age.
   (D)   Date of admission.
   (E)   Next of kin.
   (F)   Name and address of the person responsible for the care and
maintenance.
   (G)   Name of inmate's attending physician.
   (H)   All written or verbal orders of the inmate's attending physician and
the date on which such orders were given.
   (I)   Date of discharge or death.
   (J)   Cause of death.
   (K)   Disposition of personal effects at death.
   (L)   The amount and disposition of any money or other valuable deposited
with the licensee to the credit of the inmate.
All entries required herein shall be made within twenty-four (24) hours from
the time of admission, or from the time of occurrence of the event required to
be recorded. Every licensee shall keep and maintain such other records and make
such reports to the Health Department as it may reasonably require upon such
forms as it may prescribe.
5-9-10: RECORD OF EMPLOYEES:
Every licensee shall maintain a record setting forth the following facts
concerning each nurse, attendant or other employee in such nursing home:
   (A)   Name.
   (B)   Age.
   (C)   Date employment began in the nursing home.
   (D)   Present and last previous address.
   (E)   Name and address of employers during the preceding three (3) year
period.
   (F)   Position and duties.
   (G)   If employed as a nurse, date of Sate registration.
   (H)   Date employment terminated.
   (I)   Reason for termination.
A copy of such record shall be delivered to the Health Department at its office
in the City not later than seventy-two (72) hours following the employment of
any such person.
5-9-11: INSPECTION OF RECORDS:
All records required to be kept under the terms of this Chapter by the licensee
shall be open to inspection by the Health Department at all reasonable hours.
It shall be unlawful to make any false entries in said records. In addition to
the penalties provided in this Code, falsification of such records or the
omission of information required thereon shall be cause for revocation of the
license.
5-9-12: INSPECTIONS; REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
It shall be the duty of the Health Department to inspect nursing homes for
which licenses have been issued hereunder as often as it shall be necessary for
the adequate control and supervision of the same, and the Health Department
shall have the right to enter all such homes at any reasonable time for the
purpose of making necessary investigations and inspections, and shall be
charged with the responsibility of enforcing and administering the provisions
of this Chapter. Every nursing home shall at all reasonable times be open for
inspection by the Fire Chief and the Building Department of the City as well as
the Health Department.
In case of any failure by a licensee to comply with the requirements of this
Chapter or any rules and regulations promulgated pursuant hereto, the Health
Department shall notify the licensee to correct the noncompliance, breach,
default of illegal condition within such number of days as is reasonable in the
light of the conditions to be remedied. In the event of failure, or upon
refusal of the licensee, to comply with the Health Department's instructions,
the Health Department shall revoke the license; provided, however, that upon a
showing of hardship or other circumstances warranting such action, the Health
Department shall have the authority to grant an extension of time for
compliance with the Health Department's instructions.
5-9-13: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
No license for a nursing home shall be issued hereunder unless it is determined
that the provisions of this Code applicable to such nursing home are being
observed and complied with, including the provisions relating to health,
sanitation, safety, fire, buildings, housing, electrical and other provisions
relating thereto.
5-9-14: ZONING RESTRICTIONS:
No license shall be issued for a nursing home if the location thereof shall be
in violation of the Zoning provisions of this Code, unless such nursing home
was being operated in such a locality as a nursing home prior to the enactment
of the Zoning provisions.
5-9-15: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The Health Department may revoke or suspend any license for a nursing home if
it is determined that the nursing home is being operated or maintained in
violation of the requirements of this Chapter or of the regulations promulgated
pursuant to this Chapter or for any of the following causes:
   (A)   Fraud or misrepresentation in obtaining the license.
   (B)   Maltreating or abusing any inmate of such nursing home.
   (C)   Using practices inimical to the physical, mental or moral well-being
of any inmate.
   (D)   Conducting the nursing home in a manner constituting a breach of the
public peace or a menace to the public health, safety, morals or welfare.
Such revocation or suspension of the license shall be in addition to any other
penalty that may be provided by Law. (1963 Code)
***** CHAPTER 10
BUSINESS LICENSE REGULATIONS *****
SECTION:
5-10-1: Purpose
5-10-2: Definitions
5-10-3: Fee Levied; Amount; Effect Upon Other License Fee Provisions
5-10-4: Exemptions
5-10-5: Engaging In Business Without Obtaining License Prohibited; Expiration
Of License
5-10-6: Application For License; Contents; License Fee To Accompany Application
5-10-7: Investigation Of Applications; Recommendations
5-10-8: Appeal Procedure
5-10-9: Contents Of License
5-10-10: Display Of License; Operation Of Business After Expiration Of License
Prohibited; Transfer Of Licenses
5-10-11: Change In Location Or Owner Of Licensed Business
5-10-12: Mailing Of Application Forms; Effect Of Failure To File License
Application
5-10-13: When Fees Due And Payable
5-10-14: License Fees, Penalties Thereon To Constitute Debt To City
5-10-15: Use Of Funds
5-10-16: Violation; Penalty
5-10-17: Revocation
5-10-18: Operation Without License Declared A Nuisance; Injunction
5-10-1: PURPOSE:
The licensing of all wholesale and retail occupations and businesses within the
city and the levying of a license fee, uniform to all classes imposed, pursuant
to the statutory authority vested in the city by Idaho Code, section 50-307, is
hereby declared to be justified and necessary for the purpose of protecting and
providing services to the citizens of the city and the businesses and
occupations doing business therein, and to ensure future businesses locate in
an area zoned for that particular business. (Ord. 237, 8-4-1997)
5-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
indicated unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
BUSINESS OR OCCUPATION: All activities, occupations, callings, trades,
pursuits, or professions located or engaged in, within the city with the object
of gain, profit, benefit or advantage. Each business location shall be deemed a
separate business unless it is a specific annex to the main location of the
business.
CITY: The city of New Plymouth, Idaho.
EMPLOYEE: Any person employed at any business location within the city, and any
person furnishing or performing services within the city. It shall include all
persons who are self-employed, and shall include part time employees.
ENGAGING IN BUSINESS: Commencing, conducting, or continuing in any business or
occupation, the exercise of corporate and franchise powers, and the liquidating
of a business, where the liquidators hold themselves out to the public as
conducting such business when he does one act of:
   A.   Selling any goods or performing any services.
   B.   Soliciting business or offering or holding out goods or services for
sale or hire.
   C.   Acquiring or using any vehicle or any premises in the city for business
purposes.
   D.   Delivery of any goods, either at wholesale or retail, unless licensed
under another section of this code.
PERSON: Any person, corporation, partnership or other entity doing business in
the city.
PREMISES: All lands, structures, places, and equipment, and appurtenances
connected or used therewith in any business, and also any personal property,
including any vehicle which is either affixed to or is otherwise used in
connection with any such business conducted on said premises.
YEAR: The calendar year. (Ord. 237, 8-4-1997)
5-10-3: FEE LEVIED; AMOUNT; EFFECT UPON OTHER LICENSE FEE PROVISIONS:
   A.   There is hereby levied upon and shall be collected from every business
or occupation within the city a license fee for the privilege of engaging in
business in an amount to be determined by the application of the rates
hereinafter set forth. Such license fee shall be a one time fee of five dollars
($5.00) for the application.
   B.   The license fee levied hereunder is not intended to repeal any other
license fee or license requirement provisions of this code or any ordinance of
the city. (Ord. 237, 8-4-1997)
5-10-4: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   Persons qualifying as nonprofit businesses or occupations, including
charitable activities, within the meaning of section 503 of the United States
internal revenue code. Possession of a certificate of tax exempt status from
the internal revenue service shall be required to qualify for this exemption,
except that the mayor and council may waive the license fee for bona fide
charitable or civic groups within the city, including, but not necessarily
limited to, private schools, churches, fraternal organizations and lodges, with
respect to their educational, religious, or fraternal activities, but this
exemption shall not apply to any business activity for profit engaged in by
such organization.
   B.   An agency of the United States government, any state of the United
States, any political subdivision of the state of Idaho, including, but not
necessarily limited to, counties, school districts, irrigation or sewer
districts or fire districts.
   C.   Domestic servants, newsboys, blind persons, or casual labor not
included as temporary employees of a regularly conducted business.
   D.   Home occupations as defined in this code, which occupations are
operated pursuant to a conditional use permit. (Ord. 237, 8-4-1997)
5-10-5: ENGAGING IN BUSINESS WITHOUT OBTAINING LICENSE PROHIBITED; EXPIRATION
OF LICENSE:
No person shall engage in any business or activity in the city for which a
license fee is imposed by this chapter, without first having obtained and being
a holder of a valid and subsisting license to do so, to be known as a business
and occupation license, issued under the provisions of this chapter, and
without paying the license fee imposed by this chapter, which license fee shall
accompany the application for the license. (Ord. 237, 8-4-1997)
5-10-6: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; CONTENTS; LICENSE FEE TO ACCOMPANY
APPLICATION:
The application for a license shall be made to the city clerk on a form
provided by the city clerk. The application shall set forth the name of the
applicant, his residence, place of business, the nature of the business, and
the amount of the license fee prescribed by this chapter, and shall be
accompanied by a deposit of the license fee by the applicant. Every application
shall be personally signed by the applicant or his agent. (Ord. 237, 8-4-1997)
5-10-7: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICATIONS; RECOMMENDATIONS:
The city clerk, or the chief of police at the clerk's direction, shall cause
any applicant for a new business license or the transfer of an existing
business license to a new business premises to be investigated for compliance
with the zoning laws of the city.
The aforesaid investigation shall be conducted as it is appropriate or required
by the clerk or his/her designee. If the city clerk is satisfied that the
zoning requisite to the issuance of a license has been met, the city clerk
shall issue such license. If the city clerk determines that the applicant is
not in compliance with the applicable zoning laws, the city clerk shall not
issue such license, and shall notify the applicant of such decision and cause
the license fee to be refunded. All required inspections shall be conducted
within ten (10) working days of the receipt of the license application. (Ord.
237, 8-4-1997)
5-10-8: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
Any applicant aggrieved by any decision of the city clerk may appeal such
decision to the city council by filing a written notice of appeal with the city
clerk within ten (10) days of such decision by the city clerk. The city clerk
shall transmit said notice of appeal to the council, which shall schedule a
public hearing on said appeal, to be held at any regular meeting or special
meeting of the council, not later than fifteen (15) days after the filing of
such notice of appeal with the city clerk. At such hearing, the applicant may
appear and speak on his own behalf, be represented by counsel, call witnesses
and cross examine any witnesses of the city. The council shall proceed to
determine said appeal, and, if it decides in favor of the applicant, it shall
pass a motion to that effect and the city clerk shall, on the next business day
thereafter, and upon receipt of the proper fee, issue such license. The council
may defer action upon said appeal for not longer than three (3) weeks from the
date of the public hearing. (Ord. 237, 8-4-1997)
5-10-9: CONTENTS OF LICENSE:
Each license issued hereunder shall state upon its face the following:
   A.   The name of the licensee and any other name under which business is to
be conducted.
   B.   The name and address of each business so licensed.
   C.   The amount of license fee therefor.
   D.   The date of issuance and expiration thereof.
   E.   Such other information as the city clerk shall determine to be
necessary.
   F.   The property zoning designation. (Ord. 237, 8-4-1997)
5-10-10: DISPLAY OF LICENSE; OPERATION OF BUSINESS AFTER EXPIRATION OF LICENSE
PROHIBITED; TRANSFER OF LICENSES:
Every licensee, under this chapter, shall display such license in a prominent
location upon the licensed premises and shall refrain from operating the
licensed business on such premises after expiration of his license. No licensee
shall allow any license to remain posted, displayed or used after the period
for which it was issued has expired, or when it has been suspended or revoked
or for any other reason become ineffective. No licensee shall loan, sell, give
or assign to any other person or allow any other person to use or display, or
to destroy, damage or remove, or to have in his possession any license which
has been issued to said licensee. (Ord. 237, 8-4-1997)
5-10-11: CHANGE IN LOCATION OR OWNER OF LICENSED BUSINESS:
Any change of owner or owners or location shall automatically void an existing
license granted under this chapter and shall necessitate application and
issuance of a new license. (Ord. 237, 8-4-1997)
5-10-12: MAILING OF APPLICATION FORMS; EFFECT OF FAILURE TO FILE LICENSE
APPLICATION:
The city clerk is authorized, but not required, to mail to persons forms for
applications for licenses, but failure of any person to receive any such forms
shall not excuse the person from making application for and securing the
license required and payment of the license fee when and as due hereunder. If
any person fails, neglects or refuses to file his application and to pay the
fee as and when required herein, the city clerk is authorized to determine the
amount of fee payable and by mail to notify such person of the amount so
determined. The amount so fixed shall thereupon be immediately due and payable
subject to the person's right to appear before the council and show cause why
his fee should not be altered or reduced. (Ord. 237, 8-4-1997)
5-10-13: WHEN FEES DUE AND PAYABLE:
A five dollar ($5.00) fee shall accompany each application for a business
license, except that business existing as of the date of the enactment of this
chapter shall be exempt from paying the five dollar ($5.00) fee. (Ord. 237, 8-
4-1997)
5-10-14: LICENSE FEES, PENALTIES THEREON TO CONSTITUTE DEBT TO CITY:
Any license fee, including penalties thereon, shall constitute a debt to the
city and may be collected by court proceedings in the same manner as any other
debt in like amount. No civil action or judgment shall bar or prevent a
criminal prosecution for each and every violation of this chapter. (Ord. 237,
8-4-1997)
5-10-15: USE OF FUNDS:
All funds received by the city under the terms of this chapter shall be paid
into the general fund of the city. (Ord. 237, 8-4-1997)
5-10-16: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
A person who violates any provision of this chapter or operates any business or
occupation for which a license is required by this chapter without having first
obtained a license as herein provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each
day that a violation of this chapter occurs shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 237, 8-4-1997)
5-10-17: REVOCATION:
Any license issued pursuant to this chapter may be revoked by the city council
if the holder or any employee violates any zoning law of the city applicable to
the business for which the license was issued. Such revocation must be preceded
by notice in writing to the licensee from the clerk, informing the licensee
that the council has ordered the holding of a public hearing at a date and time
certain, not less than ten (10) days from the date of such notice, at which
hearing the licensee will be required to appear personally and show cause why
the license should not be revoked. At such hearing the licensee may be
represented by counsel, may testify personally, may call witnesses and may
cross examine any witnesses called by the city. Should the council determine
that such license should be revoked, it shall pass a motion to that effect, and
such license shall thereupon be revoked; provided, however, that no such motion
shall be deemed passed without the affirmative vote of one-half plus one (1/2 +
1) of the members of the full council. (Ord. 237, 8-4-1997)
5-10-18: OPERATION WITHOUT LICENSE DECLARED A NUISANCE; INJUNCTION:
The operating or conducting of any business or occupation for which a license
is required by this chapter without having a valid license as provided herein
is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. In addition to any other remedy
provided by this chapter, the city may bring an action in any court of
competent jurisdiction to obtain an order enjoining any person from operating
or conducting any business or occupation in violation of this chapter. (Ord.
237, 8-4-1997)
***** CHAPTER 11
PAWNBROKERS *****
SECTION:
5-11-1: Definition
5-11-2: License Required; Application And Procedure
5-11-3: Records
5-11-4: Minors And Intoxicated Person
5-11-5: Forfeitures
5-11-6: Notice From Police Department
5-11-7: Hours Of Operation
5-11-8: Stolen Property
5-11-9: Violations And Penalty
5-11-1: DEFINITION:
For the purposes of this Chapter, "pawnbroker" shall mean every person, firm,
association or corporation who makes it a business to lend money on deposit or
purchase personal property or any thing of value on condition of selling the
same back again at a stipulated price, or who loans money secured by a chattel
mortgage, security or personal property, while having possession of the
property, or any part of the mortgaged property or who advertises by the use of
"Three Bali", or pawnbrokers sign, or by advertising "unredeemed pledges", or
by using the term "uncle", or by any other expression intending to designate
pawnbroker's business, shall, for all intents and purposes under this Chapter
be declared to be a pawnbroker within the meaning of this Chapter. (Ord. 246,
6-1-1998)
5-11-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION AND PROCEDURE:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of a
pawnbroker unless a valid license therefor has been issued as provided for in
this Chapter and which is in full force and effect.
   (B)   An application for such license shall be made to the City Clerk in
such form and manner as the City Clerk may prescribe.
   (C)   Upon receipt of an application for a license, the City Clerk shall
cause an investigation to be made of the applicant. Any person who has been
convicted of a felony or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude within five (5)
years from the date of application shall not be issued a pawnbroking permit.
   (D)   Upon completion of such investigation, the City Clerk shall issue,
subject to Council approval, a license which shall expire at the end of the
calendar year, unless sooner suspended, revoked or surrendered. A pawnbroker
license shall not be transferable either to person or location except as
provided in subsection (H) of this Section.
   (E)   Before the issuance of any license or renewal thereof, the City Clerk
shall collect an annual license fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   (F)   No license shall be issued to any person who is not eighteen (18)
years of age or older.
   (G)   The license issued under this Chapter shall state the name of the
person to whom issued, the place of business and street number where such
business is located and the amount of capital employed. Such license shall
entitle the person receiving it only to do business at the place designated in
such license.
   (H)   If at any time during the life of the license a pawnbroker does not
conduct said business for a period of ninety (90) consecutive days, the license
shall automatically terminate and shall be null and void. Pawnbroker's licenses
shall not be transferable to any other person, except by a majority vote of the
City Council, and the filing of an application and a new bond by the person to
whom such license is, or may be transferred or assigned. It shall be unlawful
and a misdemeanor crime for any person to do business, or to attempt to do
business, under a license transferred to him without the approval of the City
Council.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or transact a
pawnbroker business in the City unless he shall keep posted in a conspicuous
place of business the license certificate therefor, and a copy of this Chapter
relating to pawnbrokers.
   (J)   Each pawnbroker shall furnish to the pledger a printed receipt clearly
showing the amount owed with a specific, detailed description of the pledged
property pawned or received, date of receipt thereof, time for redemption, and
the name of the pledgee. The pawnbroker shall affix to each article or thing a
tag upon which shall be inscribed a number, of legible characters which shall
correspond to the number on the pawn ticket and be entered in a book or record
required to be kept by the provisions of this Chapter. The pawnbroker shall
furnish all information required to be given to borrowers by State and Federal
law. The following information shall appear in bold print on the front of each
pawn ticket required to be given to the pledger:
   WARNING
If you have borrowed money from the pawnbroker and if you fail to make any
payment when it is due, the pawnbroker, 10 days after default in making any
payment, may sell any property you have deposited, and you will lose your
rights to the property.
   (K)   The holder of a pawnbroker's license shall be responsible for any and
all acts of his agents or employees, and for any violation by them of the
provisions of this Chapter.
   (L)   Every pawnbroker licensed under the provisions hereof shall provide a
safe place for the keeping of all goods or things received in the pawn, pledge
or for resale, and shall have sufficient insurance on the place of business to
insure contents, or post ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) bond.
   (M)   The City Council, upon notice and opportunity for hearing, may revoke
any pawnbroker's license for violation(s) of any provision of this Chapter.
   (N)   No pawnbroker's license shall be issued for any location in which such
business is not permitted by any ordinance or resolution of the City. (Ord.
246, 6-1-1998)
5-11-3: RECORDS:
Every pawnbroker shall keep a record of every article pledged with him or sold
to him, and this record shall be reported to the Police Department in a
pawnbroker's report and shall be open to the inspection of the Chief of Police
or his designee at any time during business hours. Such record shall be upon
the form as may be required by the Chief of Police and shall provide the
following information:
   (A)   Name and address of the pawnbroker;
   (B)   Name, address, age, sex, height, weight, and complexion of the pledger
or seller, except for persons repawning items that were previously pawned by
that person;
   (C)   The date and time of the transaction, the article pledged or sold,
together with its description, serial number or other identification, and the
amount and terms of the loan;
   (D)   The pledger or seller's motor vehicle operator's license number and
the state of issue, a car license number or other legal identification;
   (E)   Signatures by both pawnbroker and pledger or seller;
   (F)   Every record shall be executed by the pawnbroker and the pledger or
seller at the time the transaction occurs;
   (G)   Every pawnbroker is hereby required to ascertain true ownership or
title to any property or article pledged pawned or sold to him. This Section
shall apply to all purchases of used, preowned or secondhand property, but
shall not apply to purchases of new merchandise purchased in the ordinary
course of business.
   (H)   All pawnbroker reports shall be made in duplicate, shall contain
accurate information, with one copy to be retained by the pawnbroker and one
copy to be made available to the Police Department on a weekly basis, or as set
out above. (Ord. 246, 6-1-1998)
5-11-4: MINORS AND INTOXICATED PERSON:
No pawnbroker shall:
   (A)   Have any business dealings as a pawnbroker with any person under
eighteen (18) years of age, except with the written consent of the parent or
guardian of the minor as to each particular transaction and in that event, the
parent or guardian shall be required to execute the record required by Section
5-11-3 of this Chapter and furnish proof of identification as any pledger or
seller of any article with such being recorded upon the aforesaid record.
Provided, however, this Section shall not prevent sales to any person
regardless of age.
   (B)   Have any business dealings as a pawnbroker with a person who is so
obviously under the influence of alcoholic beverages or drugs so as to impair
his business judgment to such a degree that a normal and reasonably prudent
person would not conduct such business with a person in such state or
condition. (Ord. 246, 6-1-1998)
5-11-5: FORFEITURES:
It shall be the duty of every "pawnbroker" as herein defined to allow any
person accepting a loan a period of forty (40) days in which to pay before the
same becomes forfeitable. The day on which the transaction occurs shall not be
counted in the forty (40) days. The fortieth day shall end at five o'clock (5:
00) P.M. or when the pawnbroker closes, whichever last occurs. (Ord. 246, 6-1-
1998)
5-11-6: NOTICE FROM POLICE DEPARTMENT:
Whenever the Chief of Police or any member of the Police Department, notifies
any pawnbroker in writing not to sell any property so received, deposited or
purchased by him, or permit the same to be redeemed, such property shall not be
sold or be permitted to be redeemed for a period of sixty (60) days from the
date of such notice; any such notice may be renewed, by written request, for an
additional sixty (60) day period or periods. Further, a notice may be
terminated at any time in writing by the Chief of Police. (Ord. 246, 6-1-1998)
5-11-7: HOURS OF OPERATION:
Legal hours for pawnbrokers, as herein defined, to be open for business shall
be from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. each day. (Ord.
246, 6-1-1998)
5-11-8: STOLEN PROPERTY:
   (A)   Any article pledged or sold to a pawnbroker which is subsequently
determined to be stolen shall be physically transferred to the custody of the
Police Department upon a request by any law enforcement officer. An officer of
the Police Department will provide the broker or his agent with a receipt
showing the Police Department to which this property is delivered.
   (B)   Upon the delivery of the stolen property to the true owner either by
the pawnbroker or a law enforcement agency, the pawnbroker shall complete such
documentation as may be necessary or required to effect the transfer of the
property including such documents pertaining to the registration of firearms as
may be required by local, State or Federal authorities. (Ord. 246, 6-1-1998)
5-11-9: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use a false name, a fictitious
address, or any address other than the true address, or to furnish any false,
untrue or misleading information or statement relating to the information
required by Section
5-11-3 of this Chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to pledge or sell any goods,
chattels or effects, or any personal property leased or let to him by any
instrument in writing under a contract of purchase not yet fulfilled.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 246, 6-1-1998)
TITLE VI
POLICE REGULATIONS
***** CHAPTER 1
GENERAL OFFENSES *****
SECTION:
6-1-1: Aid In Escape (Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-2: Aid To An Offense (Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-3: Arson (Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-4: Assault Or Battery (Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-5: Assisting In Lottery (Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-6: Barbed Wire And Electric Fences (Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-7: Beer; Procuring Or Selling To Minors
6-1-8: Cruelty To Animals (Rep. by Ord. 116, 10-4-1976)
6-1-9: Deposits Of Injurious Material On Thoroughfares
6-1-10: Disorderly Conduct
6-1-11: Distribution Of Obscene Literature (Rep. by Ord. 218, 11-21-1994)
6-1-12: Disturbing The Peace
6-1-13: Drunkenness
6-1-14: Encouraging Delinquency (Rep. by Ord. 218, 11-21-1994)
6-1-15: Escapes (Rep. by Ord. 218, 11-21-1994)
6-1-16: Expectorating On Sidewalks Or In Public Buildings
6-1-17: False Pretenses (Rep. by Ord. 218, 11-21-1994)
6-1-18: False Representation
6-1-19: Fraudulently Avoiding Payment Of Admission Fees (Rep. by Ord. 218, 11-
21-1994)
6-1-20: Furnishing Weapons And Other Articles To Prisoners (Rep. by Ord. 218,
11-21-1994)
6-1-21: Gambling (Rep. by Ord. 218, 11-21-1994)
6-1-22: General Offense
6-1-23: Giving Assistance To Police Officers
6-1-24: House Of Prostitution (Rep. by Ord. 218, 11-21-1994)
6-1-25: Hypnotists Prohibited
6-1-26: Indecent Exposure
6-1-27: Keeping Of Junk Restricted (Rep. by Ord. 349, 5-2-2016)
6-1-28: Lewd Cohabitation (Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-29: Lottery (Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-30: Loudspeakers Or Sound Trucks
6-1-31: Lug Wheels Prohibited
6-1-32: Malicious Injury To Property (Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-33: Minors In Pool Halls
6-1-34: Mufflers; Unnecessary Noise (Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-35: Nuisances Defined (Rep. by Ord. 349, 5-2-2016)
6-1-36: Obscene Conduct
6-1-37: Petit Larceny (Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-38: Playing Ball On Streets Prohibited
6-1-39: Prostitution (Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-40: Resisting An Officer (Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-41: Riot (Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-42: Sale Of Cigarettes Or Tobacco To Minors (Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-43: Swindling (Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-44: Trespassing (Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-45: Unlawful Assembly (Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-46: Vagrancy (Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-47: Water Flowing Upon Streets
6-1-48: Windowsills To Be Kept Clear
6-1-49: Conduct On Drive-In Premises
6-1-50: Refusal To Leave Real Property
6-1-51: Window Peeping
6-1-1: AID IN ESCAPE:
(Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-2: AID TO AN OFFENSE:
(Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-3: ARSON:
(Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-4: ASSAULT OR BATTERY:
(Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-5: ASSISTING IN LOTTERY:
(Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-6: BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES:
(Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-7: BEER; PROCURING OR SELLING TO MINORS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to procure, sell, or give away any beer to
any person under the age of twenty (20) years or for any person under the age
of twenty (20) years to purchase, attempt to purchase or otherwise procure,
consume or have in his possession any beer. (1960 Code)
6-1-8: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
(Rep. by Ord. 116, 10-4-1976)
6-1-9: DEPOSITS OF INJURIOUS MATERIAL ON THOROUGHFARES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, place or allow to remain in or
upon any public thoroughfare any material or substance injurious to person or
property. (1960 Code)
6-1-10: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any illegal or improper
diversion or to use insulting, indecent or immoral language, or to be guilty of
any indecent, insulting, or immoral conduct or behavior. (1960 Code)
6-1-11: DISTRIBUTION OF OBSCENE LITERATURE:
(Rep. by Ord. 218, 11-21-1994)
6-1-12: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
It shall be unlawful for any person, wilfully, maliciously, intentionally or
unnecessarily, to disturb the peace and quiet of another or of any neighborhood
or family or religious congregation or other assembly by loud or unusual noises
or indecent behavior or by offensive or unbecoming conduct or for any person to
threaten, quarrel, fight or provoke an assault or battery or curse or swear or
utter any obscene or vulgar or indecent language in the presence of another.
(1960 Code)
6-1-13: DRUNKENNESS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to be found drunk, intoxicated or under the
influence of intoxicating liquor upon any public thoroughfare or other public
place. (1960 Code)
6-1-14: ENCOURAGING DELINQUENCY:
(Rep. by Ord. 218, 11-21-1994)
6-1-15: ESCAPES:
(Rep. by Ord. 218, 11-21-1994)
6-1-16: EXPECTORATING ON SIDEWALKS OR IN PUBLIC BUILDINGS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to expectorate or spit upon any sidewalk or
upon the floor of any public building or room used for public assemblies. (1960
Code)
6-1-17: FALSE PRETENSES:
(Rep. by Ord. 218, 11-21-1994)
6-1-18: FALSE REPRESENTATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to represent falsely himself to be an
officer of the municipality or who shall attempt to impersonate any such
officer or who shall without authority perform any official act therein on
behalf of an officer. (1960 Code)
6-1-19: FRAUDULENTLY AVOIDING PAYMENT OF ADMISSION FEES:
(Rep. by Ord. 218, 11-21-1994)
6-1-20: FURNISHING WEAPONS AND OTHER ARTICLES TO PRISONERS:
(Rep. by Ord. 218, 11-21-1994)
6-1-21: GAMBLING:
(Rep. by Ord. 218, 11-21-1994)
6-1-22: GENERAL OFFENSE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any act or fail to perform any
requirement which is prohibited or required by state law, insofar as such laws
are applicable to municipal government. (1960 Code)
6-1-23: GIVING ASSISTANCE TO POLICE OFFICERS:
It shall be unlawful for any male citizen over the age of eighteen (18) years
to refuse or neglect to render assistance to any police officer when called
upon for such assistance or aid in the suppression of a riot or other unlawful
assemblage or in the arrest of any person who has committed an offense. (1960
Code)
6-1-24: HOUSE OF PROSTITUTION:
(Rep. by Ord. 218, 11-21-1994)
6-1-25: HYPNOTISTS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to practice hypnotism or for any person to
be a subject for such hypnotist provided that this shall not apply to hypnotism
as used in the treatment of patients by an accredited doctor of medicine or
doctor of dentistry nor shall it prohibit the teaching of hypnotism in any
state accredited educational institution which maintains an academic standard
of the college level. (1960 Code)
6-1-26: INDECENT EXPOSURE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in a state of nudity or in any
indecent or lewd dress or condition in any public place or in any such place to
make any indecent exposure of his or her person or private parts thereof or the
private parts of another or to conduct himself in a lewd or lascivious manner
or to appear in any such place in a dress not belonging to his sex. (1960 Code)
6-1-27: KEEPING OF JUNK RESTRICTED:
(Rep. by Ord. 349, 5-2-2016)
6-1-28: LEWD COHABITATION:
(Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-29: LOTTERY:
(Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-30: LOUDSPEAKERS OR SOUND TRUCKS:
It shall be unlawful to play, operate, or use any device known as a sound
truck, loudspeaker or sound amplifier, radio or phonograph, with loudspeaker or
sound amplifier or any instrument of any kind or character which emits loud and
raucous noises and is attached to and upon any vehicle unless such person in
charge of such vehicle shall have first applied to and received permission from
the chief of police to operate any such vehicle so equipped. (1960 Code)
6-1-31: LUG WHEELS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for tractors with wheels injurious to pavement to be
permitted upon the public thoroughfares unless the operator of such vehicle
shall first plank such street. (1960 Code)
6-1-32: MALICIOUS INJURY TO PROPERTY:
(Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-33: MINORS IN POOL HALLS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any minor under the age of twenty
one (21) years to frequent or loiter in a pool or billiard hall where beer or
intoxicating liquor is sold. (1960 Code)
6-1-34: MUFFLERS; UNNECESSARY NOISE:
(Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-35: NUISANCES DEFINED:
(Rep. by Ord. 349, 5-2-2016)
6-1-36: OBSCENE CONDUCT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to urinate or stool in any place open to
the public view, or to be guilty of any lewd, lascivious or obscene conduct or
to sing any lewd or obscene song, ballad or other words in any public place or
any other place where other persons are present or indecently to exhibit any
animals. (1960 Code)
6-1-37: PETIT LARCENY:
(Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-38: PLAYING BALL ON STREETS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to play ball or throw any ball to and fro
upon any public thoroughfare in the municipality. (1960 Code)
6-1-39: PROSTITUTION:
(Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-40: RESISTING AN OFFICER:
(Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-41: RIOT:
(Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-42: SALE OF CIGARETTES OR TOBACCO TO MINORS:
(Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-43: SWINDLING:
(Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-44: TRESPASSING:
(Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-45: UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY:
(Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-46: VAGRANCY:
(Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-1990)
6-1-47: WATER FLOWING UPON STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any water to flow into or upon any
public thoroughfare. (Ord. 106, 1-7-1974)
6-1-48: WINDOWSILLS TO BE KEPT CLEAR:
It shall be unlawful for any person to place or keep on any windowsill, porch
or other projection above the first story of any building abutting on any
sidewalk any article which might do injury by falling upon any person on the
sidewalk in front of such building, unless said article is securely fastened or
protected by screens. (Ord. 106, 1-7-1974)
6-1-49: CONDUCT ON DRIVE-IN PREMISES:
No person on the premises of a drive-in restaurant, bank, theater, business,
public parking facility or other public or private property where parking or
drive-in facilities are offered and extended to the public for use shall
needlessly do any of the following: race the motor vehicle; bring any motor
vehicle to a sudden start or stop; impede the orderly movement of vehicles of
pedestrian traffic on such premises; blow horn, or make or cause to be made any
loud, boisterous, rude, indecent, unseemly or unnecessary noise; speak rude,
indecent, vulgar or profane words toward another person; deface or damage the
property of another; or commit any other act constituting nuisance or
disturbance on said premises whereby the quiet and good order of the premises
or the neighborhood is disturbed.
No person or persons driving or maneuvering a vehicle in a reckless manner
without due care, prudence with lack of caution wherein the driving of said
vehicle in this manner could cause injury to life and property.
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section or fails to
comply with any of the terms and conditions of this section shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor.
The provisions of this section are hereby declared to be severable and if any
provisions of this section or the application of such provisions to any person
or circumstance is declared invalid for any reason, such declaration shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this section. (Ord. 106, 1-7-
1974)
6-1-50: REFUSAL TO LEAVE REAL PROPERTY:
Any person, except under a landlord-tenant relationship, who, being first
notified either verbally or in writing, by the owner, agent or a designee
thereof, to immediately depart from certain real property and who: a) refuses
to depart after being so notified, or b) returns to the property within thirty
(30) days after expulsion without the owner's, agent's or designee's
permission, is guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed
three hundred dollars ($300.00) or thirty (30) days in jail, or both fine and
jail. (Ord. 229, 9-16-1996)
6-1-51: WINDOW PEEPING:
It shall be unlawful for any person, without first obtaining permission of the
person or persons in lawful possession of any premises upon which a residential
dwelling is located, to enter upon the premises of another for the purpose of
looking, peeking, staring or peeping in the windows of said residence. A
violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to
exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) or six (6) months in jail, or both fine
and jail. (Ord. 229, 9-16-1996)
***** CHAPTER 2
ANIMALS *****
SECTION:
6-2-1: Definitions
6-2-2: License Required
6-2-3: Collar And Tag Required
6-2-4: Application For License And License Fees
6-2-5: Imitation License Tags
6-2-6: Dogs Running At Large Prohibited
6-2-7: Animals Or Fowl Running At Large Prohibited
6-2-8: Commercial Kennels Prohibited
6-2-9: Rabies
6-2-10: Enforcement
6-2-11: Interference With Animal Control Officer Prohibited
6-2-12: Disturbing The Peace
6-2-13: Nuisances
6-2-14: Animal Waste Matter
6-2-15: Impounding
6-2-16: City Pound
6-2-17: Animals Impounded
6-2-18: Licensed Dogs Impounded
6-2-19: Unlicensed Dogs Impounded
6-2-20: Notice Of Sale Of Animals
6-2-21: Freeing Of Impounded Animals And Poultry Prohibited
6-2-22: Livestock Within Public Parks
6-2-23: Large Animals Prohibited On Sidewalks And Certain Streets
6-2-24: Cruelty To Animals
6-2-25: Dog Or Cock Fights
6-2-26: Determination Of A Vicious Animal
6-2-27: Vicious Animals
6-2-28: Purpose Or Intent; Harboring
6-2-29: Commanding An Animal To Attack; Prohibited
6-2-30: Action For Damages; Destruction Of Offending Vicious Animal; Civil
Penalty
6-2-31: Liability Of Parents For Damages By Animal Owned By Minor
6-2-32: Vicious Animals Prohibited
6-2-33: Feral Cats
6-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, each of the terms defined shall have the meanings
given in this section unless a different meaning is clearly required by the
context. The word "shall" is mandatory, not directory.
ABUSE: Any case in which an animal has been the victim of intentional or
negligent conduct resulting in the animal's bruising, bleeding, malnutrition,
dehydration, burns, fractures or breaks of any bones, subdural hematoma, soft
tissue swelling or death.
AT LARGE: Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the owner
or a member of his immediate family either by leash, cord, chain or as
otherwise provided for in this chapter.
ENCLOSURE: A fence or structure of at least six feet (6') in height, forming or
causing containment suitable to prevent the entry of young children, and
suitable to confine an animal in conjunction with other measures which may be
taken by the owner such as tethering of the animal. Such enclosure shall be
securely enclosed and locked and designed with secure sides, top and bottom and
shall be designed to prevent the animal from escaping from the enclosure.
FERAL CAT: A feral cat is a free-ranging small animal domestic feline not
identified by collar, clipped ears, tattoo, or other marking to indicate
ownership, that roams outdoors without any restriction, generally avoids human
contact or otherwise does not allow itself to be handled or touched, and
usually remains hidden from humans.
IMPOUNDED: Taken into custody by any law enforcement agency or person
authorized by the City of New Plymouth.
KENNEL: Any lot or premises or portion thereof on which four (4) or more dogs,
cats or any combination thereof, are maintained, harbored, possessed, bred or
cared for and are not for sale or compensation.
KENNEL, COMMERCIAL: Any lot or premises or portion thereof, on which four (4)
or more dogs, cats or other household domestic animals, or any combination
thereof, are maintained, harbored, possessed, boarded, bred or cared for in
return for compensation or kept for sale.
LARGE ANIMAL: Large animals shall include:
   (A)   Ruminants:
       1.   Bovine (cattle).
      2.   Caprine (goat).
      3.   Ovine (sheep).
   (B)   Equine (horses, mules).
   (C)   Porcine (swine).
   (D)   Feline (large exotic cats).
   (E)   Other unscheduled animals with adult weight over one hundred (100)
pounds.
OWNER: Any person or persons keeping, harboring, possessing, caring for, or
having custodial duties over any animal. Any person who continually feeds and/
or shelters a feral cat shall be considered its owner.
SENIOR CITIZEN: Any person who has attained the age of sixty (60) or older.
SMALL ANIMALS: Small animals shall include:
   (A)   Canine (dog, fox, coyote, etc.).
   (B)   Feline (domestic and small exotic cats).
   (C)   Primates.
   (D)   Avian (chickens, turkeys, waterfowl and exotic birds).
   (E)   Reptiles.
   (F)   Rodents (rabbits, hamsters, etc.).
VICIOUS ANIMAL: (A) Any animal which, when unprovoked in a vicious or
terrorizing manner, approaches any person in apparent attitude of attack upon
the streets, sidewalks, any public grounds or places, or private property not
owned or possessed by the owner of the animal; or
   (B)   Any animal with a known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack
unprovoked, to cause injury or to otherwise endanger the safety of human beings
or domestic animals; or
   (C)   Any animal which bites, inflicts injury, assaults or otherwise attacks
a human being or domestic animal without provocation; or
   (D)   Any animal owned or harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of
fighting or any animal trained for fighting; or
   (E)   Guard dog.
Notwithstanding the definition of a "vicious animal" herein, no animal may be
declared vicious if any injury or damage is sustained by a person who, at the
time of such injury or damage was sustained, was committing a willful trespass
or other tort upon the premises occupied by the owner of the animal, or was
teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the animal or was committing or
attempting to commit a crime.
No animal may be declared vicious if the injury or damage was sustained as a
result of teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the animal. No animal may
be declared vicious if the animal was protecting or defending a human being
within the immediate vicinity of the animal from an unjustified attack or
assault.
There is a rebuttable presumption that a child of less than seven (7) years of
age is not capable of teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting or provoking
an animal or willfully trespassing. (Ord. 392, 5-6-2019)
6-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, harbor, keep or possess a
dog within the city without first procuring a license therefor, as provided by
this chapter, provided however, that the provisions of this chapter shall not
apply to any person visiting in the city for a period not exceeding thirty (30)
days, and owning or possessing a dog, if such dog is:
      1.   Currently licensed and bearing the license issued by another
municipality.
   (B)   Whenever a person shall be found guilty of violating this section,
they shall be fined as follows:
      First offense shall be an infraction and subject to a fine of not less
than twenty dollars ($20.00).
      Second offense within twelve (12) months shall be an infraction and
subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00).
      Third offense within twelve (12) months shall be a misdemeanor and shall
be subject to a fine of not less than one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00).
(Ord. 354, 11-7-2016)
6-2-3: COLLAR AND TAG REQUIRED:
Every dog shall wear at all times a substantial and durable collar, to which
shall be securely attached the required license tag. The shape of the tag shall
be changed each year and shall have stamped thereon the year for which said tag
was issued and a number that will correspond with the number on the
certificate. (Ord. 354, 11-7-2016)
6-2-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE AND LICENSE FEES:
   (A)   All dogs over six (6) months old shall be licensed. The owner or
person having charge of any dog within the city limits shall make application
to the city clerk and pay a license fee in the sum of ten dollars ($10.00) for
each spayed female or neutered male owned, or the sum of fifteen dollars
($15.00) for every female or male dog which is not spayed or neutered. At the
time of application evidence must be provided of proof of spaying or neutering
from a licensed and qualified veterinarian. Senior citizens will receive
licenses for their spayed or neutered dog for five dollars ($5.00). Licenses
provided for herein shall be valid for a period of one year. Licenses lasting
for three (3) years shall be available upon a payment of thirty dollars
($30.00) for each spayed female or neutered male, forty five dollars ($45.00)
for every female or male dog which is not spayed or neutered and fifteen
dollars ($15.00) for seniors who license their spayed or neutered dog. License
fees shall be waived for any guide dog or certified service dog that has been
properly trained for the purpose of and is used to guide a blind or partially
blind person, a person with impaired hearing, or any other severely disabled
person who requires a certified service dog.
   (B)   The owner shall state at the time application is made for such license
upon printed forms provided for such purpose, his name and address; shall
describe the dog to be licensed in such a manner that the dog may be identified
with reasonable certainty.
   (C)   All dogs shall be licensed for and by the calendar year of January 1
through December 31. Any application for a license for any animal over six (6)
months old must have proof of rabies vaccination. For dogs that are being
licensed for the first time, the fees required pursuant to this chapter shall
be paid no later than December 31 of each calendar year. For dogs that have
previously been licensed in the city, fees shall be paid no later than March 1.
Any person who does not register their dog and pay the fee by March 1 shall be
subject to a ten dollar ($10.00) late fee.
   (D)   Upon satisfactory proof that a license tag has been lost, a new tag of
a different number may be issued by the city clerk upon payment of a fee of
five dollars ($5.00) and the transaction shall be noted upon the city office
files for the number that was originally issued. (Ord. 354, 11-7-2016)
6-2-5: IMITATION LICENSE TAGS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any dog owned, kept or harbored by
him to wear a license tag received on accounts for any other licensed dog or to
wear any imitation of a license tag issued by the city of that year, or any
other tag marked on the plate or collar similar to that required by the city at
that time and calculated to deceive. Any person who violates this section shall
be guilty of an infraction and fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00).
(Ord. 354, 11-7-2016)
6-2-6: DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to allow or permit any dog whether
licensed or not to be or remain upon the streets or alleys of the City or in a
public place in the City or off the owner's premises and upon the premises of
another without the consent of the person in possession of such other premises
unless:
      1.   Such dog be in the charge of a person and controlled by a leash not
exceeding ten feet (10') in length.
      2.   Such dog be confined in a motor vehicle.
   (B)   The first time a dog shall be found running at large in violation of
this section, a complaint shall be lodged with the law enforcement agency in
charge of enforcing City ordinances. Upon such a complaint, a written warning
shall be issued to the owner of the dog or to the person who is then in control
of the dog.
   (C)   A second or subsequent time that a dog is found to be running at large
in violation of this section and after a written warning has been provided, any
peace officer observing the dog running at large in violation of this section
or who receives a complaint about the dog running at large, shall have the
authority to issue a citation to the animal's owner or to the person in control
of the dog. Whenever a person shall be found guilty of violating this section,
he shall be fined as follows:
      First offense shall be an infraction punishable by a fine not to exceed
twenty five dollars ($25.00).
      Second offense within twelve (12) months shall be an infraction
punishable by a fine not to exceed fifty dollars ($50.00).
      Third or subsequent offense within twelve (12) months shall be an
infraction punishable by a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00).
It shall be no defense that a person has exchanged dogs since the date of the
last offense. (Ord. 383, 7-16-2018)
6-2-7: ANIMALS OR FOWL RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any and all horses, mules, cattle,
sheep, swine, goats, chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys or other fowl or poultry,
or any other animals except domesticated dogs, cats and rabbits, within the
City limits except as hereinafter provided:
   (A)   Such animals may be allowed to be kept in areas of the City that are
not served by streets or alleys, and including areas zoned as industrial or
commercial, providing the keeping of such animals in said areas does not
interfere with the enjoyment of homes and parties living adjacent herein.
   (B)   And providing further that the owner or keeper of any said animal
first procures a license to keep such animals in said areas designated herein.
   (C)   The owner or keeper of any of said animals shall make application to
the City Clerk and pay a license fee of five dollars ($5.00) for each large
animal over three (3) months old and five dollars ($5.00) per category for
small animals unless otherwise scheduled per calendar year, or part thereof;
the owner or keeper shall state at the time the application is made for such
license, upon printed forms provided for such purpose, his name and address and
the type and number of animals to be licensed.
   (D)   The person to whom the application is made may designate a person to
inspect the area of the City in which the applicant requests license to keep
animals, to ensure such special use will not interfere with use and enjoyment
of homes and premises adjacent to such property to be so used.
Animals shall not be permitted to run at large in the City at any time during
the year; and it shall be unlawful for anyone to herd or drive any animal
through the streets of the City without having said animal under control by
means of rope, strap or other device by which it may be led, unless such animal
is being driven in harness or hauled; it shall be the duty of any law
enforcement officer designated by the City to seize and impound any and all
horses, mules, cattle, sheep, goats, chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys or other
animals, fowl or poultry found running at large or herded within the aforesaid
City limits. (Ord. 354, 11-7-2016)
6-2-8: COMMERCIAL KENNELS PROHIBITED:
   (A)   The keeping of any commercial kennel within the City limits is hereby
absolutely prohibited. A "commercial kennel" is hereby defined as any
establishment where dogs are cared for, boarded or kept for hire.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to keep, maintain or possess upon the premises of
any one household more than four (4) dogs. Provided further, that in the event
the number of dogs upon the premises of any one household exceeds the number of
four (4) for the reason that newborn puppies have been born to a dog living on
said premises, then and in that event, it shall be lawful to keep, maintain and
possess upon said premises, said puppies until they reach the age of three (3)
months.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to maintain more than four (4) large animals
within the City except on property zoned Agricultural R. (Ord. 354, 11-7-2016)
6-2-9: RABIES:
The animal control officer or any other law enforcement officer designated by
the city shall have the authority to order the owner of any dog which has
bitten any person in such a manner so as to cause an abrasion of the skin to
place the dog in quarantine in the city pound or any other secure facility for
quarantine for a period of ten (10) days. If such dog shall be determined free
from rabies, the same shall be returned to the owner upon payment of a twenty
five dollar ($25.00) impound fee and a ten dollar ($10.00) charge for each day
the dog has been impounded. No other fee shall be charged. If such fee is not
paid, the dog shall be subject to disposal after proper notice is given to the
owner provided that the owner can be located. (Ord. 354, 11-7-2016)
6-2-10: ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   The enforcement of this chapter shall be the responsibility of the law
enforcement agency employed by the city for law enforcement purpose. That
agency may designate an animal control officer and give him/her the authority
of a police officer. Such officer shall be responsible to the appointed law
enforcement agency for the enforcement of all animal control regulations.
   (B)   All fees collected shall be turned over to the city clerk. (Ord. 354,
11-7-2016)
6-2-11: INTERFERENCE WITH ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, molest or in any way interfere
with the animal control officer, any law enforcement officer or any other
person designated and acting on behalf of the city, while they are lawfully
engaged in the performance of their duties pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 354,
11-7-2016)
6-2-12: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
No person owning any dog shall suffer or permit any such dog to disturb the
peace and quiet of a neighborhood by howling, barking, making loud or unusual
noises, or by running through or across cultivated gardens or fields. (Ord.
354, 11-7-2016)
6-2-13: NUISANCES:
   (A)   Nuisance Declared: Any animal is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance if it:
      1.   Bites a person.
      2.   Chases vehicles or persons.
      3.   Damages or destroys property of persons other than the owner of the
animal.
      4.   Scatters garbage.
      5.   Trespasses on private property of persons other than the owner of
the animal.
      6.   Barks or howls or whines for five (5) or more total minutes in any
fifteen (15) consecutive minutes and thereby disturbs one or more persons not
then residing in the residence of the owner, possessor or keeper of the animal;
provided, however, an initial occurrence shall result in the issuance of a
warning only with any subsequent occurrence within a seven (7) day calendar
period of the initial occurrence being subject to all penalties provided for
herein.
      7.   Makes unprovoked attacks on other animals.
      8.   Any biting animal may be declared vicious by the animal control
board.
   (B)   Exception To Dog As Public Nuisance: A dog shall not be considered a
public nuisance if the dog bites:
      1.   A person battering a dog's owner or the owner's spouse or children
or persons legally residing with the owner, or
      2.   A person wrongfully assaulting the dog, or
      3.   A person entering a fully fenced area, regardless of where located,
if that area is conspicuously posted with signs warning of the presence of the
dog within the fenced area. (Ord. 354, 11-7-2016)
6-2-14: ANIMAL WASTE MATTER:
It shall be unlawful for a person owning or keeping an animal to allow the
animal to deposit solid waste matter on any property other than that of the
person owning or keeping the animal, but it shall be a defense to this action
if the owner or keeper removes the solid waste and properly disposes of it.
(Ord. 354, 11-7-2016)
6-2-15: IMPOUNDING:
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the city's appointed law enforcement agency or
the designated animal control officer to apprehend any animal found running at
large contrary to the provisions of this chapter, and to impound such animal in
the city pound or other suitable facility; provided that if a fierce, dangerous
or vicious animal found running at large cannot be safely taken up and
impounded, such animal may be slain by any police officer or the animal control
officer of the city.
   (B)   The city's appointed law enforcement agency or the designated animal
control officer so impounding or slaying any animal shall record a description
of the animal, whether licensed or not in a book kept for that purpose.
   (C)   If the animal is licensed and shall be wearing a license tag when
apprehended or slain, the law enforcement officer or animal control officer
shall also record the name and address of the owner and the number of the tag.
(Ord. 354, 11-7-2016)
6-2-16: CITY POUND:
The city is hereby authorized and empowered, but not required, to secure and
maintain a suitable pound for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of
this chapter. The city's law enforcement officers or the animal control officer
will be the sole judge of how animals are to be segregated and penned. (Ord.
354, 11-7-2016)
6-2-17: ANIMALS IMPOUNDED:
   (A)   The owner or owners of any animals impounded may redeem the same by
paying all the costs, charges and penalties assessed, if any, that have accrued
up to the time of making the redemption, and when the same are paid, it shall
be the duty of the animal control officer or any other designated law
enforcement officer to release the animal from said pound to the said owner
thereof. The owner of said animal shall pay an impound fee of twenty five
dollars ($25.00) together with a ten dollar ($10.00) per day boarding fee.
   (B)   All fees and boarding services for the taking up of such animals shall
be payable to and collected by the city clerk. (Ord. 354, 11-7-2016)
6-2-18: LICENSED DOGS IMPOUNDED:
It shall be the duty of the designated law enforcement officer or any other
person designated by the city to cause notice to be served either in person or
by mail upon the registered owner of any licensed dog impounded under the
provisions of this chapter. Any dog not redeemed is declared to be a public
nuisance and may be disposed of in a humane manner under the direction of the
designated law enforcement officer, within five (5) days of notification. (Ord.
354, 11-7-2016)
6-2-19: UNLICENSED DOGS IMPOUNDED:
It shall be the duty of the designated law enforcement agency or any other
person designated by the city to hold for a period of three (3) working days
any unlicensed dog impounded under the provisions of this chapter. Any such
unlicensed dog not redeemed within said three (3) day period shall be declared
to be a stray dog and a public nuisance and may be disposed of in a humane
manner under the direction of the law enforcement agency designated to act on
behalf of the city. (Ord. 354, 11-7-2016)
6-2-20: NOTICE OF SALE OF ANIMALS:
If the owner or person entitled to the possession of any large animal does not
pay the charges and does not take said animal away within five (5) days from
the time it is taken into custody, the designated law enforcement agency for
the city may sell such animal at public auction after having given at least
five (5) days' notice of the time and place of such sale by publishing or by
posting said notice in three (3) public places in the municipality as well as
serving a copy of said notice upon the owner or possessor, if known, of said
animal. Such animal may be redeemed at any time before the date of sale by the
payment to the city clerk of any fees, expenses and charges herein provided.
All revenue from sale shall become part of the general fund of the city. (Ord.
354, 11-7-2016)
6-2-21: FREEING OF IMPOUNDED ANIMALS AND POULTRY PROHIBITED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to break upon or in any manner directly or
indirectly, aid or assist in the breaking open of or into any pen or enclosure
with intent of releasing any animal or poultry.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person except those responsible for the
enforcement of this chapter to release any animal from the city pound or from
any other place where an animal may be held for observation. (Ord. 354, 11-7-
2016)
6-2-22: LIVESTOCK WITHIN PUBLIC PARKS:
Except during those days which are designated as Payette County Fair week, no
large animal of any kind shall be allowed within any public park within the
city except when such animal is kept upon the regularly traveled motor vehicle
public rights of way within said park. (Ord. 354, 11-7-2016)
6-2-23: LARGE ANIMALS PROHIBITED ON SIDEWALKS AND CERTAIN STREETS:
Except during those days which are designated as Payette County Fair week, it
shall be unlawful and prohibited for horsedrawn vehicles or the riding of
horses on all sidewalks of all streets and upon any street or alley which has
been newly oiled, paved or laid with concrete. (Ord. 354, 11-7-2016)
6-2-24: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to torture or beat cruelly, starve, or
otherwise ill treat any animal in his care or charge, whether belonging to
himself or any other person. (Ord. 354, 11-7-2016)
6-2-25: DOG OR COCK FIGHTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to participate in any dog or cock fights
within the limits of the city. (Ord. 354, 11-7-2016)
6-2-26: DETERMINATION OF A VICIOUS ANIMAL:
   (A)   There is hereby created a standing animal control board. The standing
animal control board shall be appointed by the mayor and confirmed by the
council. The standing animal control board shall consist of a council member, a
law enforcement officer and two (2) citizens. The standing animal control board
shall meet as often as may be directed by the mayor or city council, but not
less than quarterly. In the event the animal control board is required to
review the actions of any animal and make a determination that an animal is
vicious or is not vicious, the animal control board shall be increased to
include the owner of the animal subject to a review and a person who has been
damaged by the animal.
   (B)   Where there is reason to believe that an animal has acted in such a
manner that it should be declared vicious, the person wishing to have the
animal declared vicious shall file a written request with the city clerk asking
that the city convene the animal control board to review the actions of the
animal.
   (C)   The owner, possessor or caretaker of the animal shall be notified of
the request and shall be notified that the person has the right to object to an
animal being found vicious. The person filing the request and the owner, keeper
or caretaker of the animal shall have the right to appear at the time and place
set for the hearing and provide testimony regarding whether the animal should
or should not be declared to be a vicious animal.
   (D)   After a hearing the animal control board shall make a determination if
the animal is vicious or not vicious.
   (E)   In the event that the animal control board has declared an animal
vicious, the owner, possessor or caretaker of the animal shall be notified in
writing of this determination. The owner, possessor or caretaker of the animal
shall be notified that they have the right within five (5) days of a
determination to appeal a decision by filing a written petition challenging the
determination. If the owner of the animal contests the determination, he or she
may, within five (5) days of such determination, bring a petition to the mayor
and city council. The city council shall conduct a hearing de novo and make its
own determination as to viciousness. Said hearing shall be conducted within
fourteen (14) days of the petition. The city council may decide all issues for
or against the owner of the animal regardless of the fact that said owner fails
to appear at said hearing.
   (F)   The determination of the city council shall be final and conclusive
upon all parties thereto. A finding that the animal is not vicious does not
preclude the animal control board from making a later determination that the
animal is vicious based upon subsequent actions of the animal.
   (G)   In the event the animal control officer or a law enforcement officer
has probable cause to believe that an animal is vicious and may pose a threat
of serious harm to human beings or other domestic animals if the animal is
allowed to remain at large, they may seize and impound the animal pending the
aforesaid hearings. The owner of the animal shall be liable to the city for the
costs and expenses of impoundment of such animal. (Ord. 354, 11-7-2016)
6-2-27: VICIOUS ANIMALS:
   (A)   No dog or other animal that has been declared to be vicious by the
animal control board shall remain in, visit or be kept within the city limits
of the city of New Plymouth.
   (B)   In the event that the owner of a vicious animal refuses to surrender
the animal to the law enforcement agency designated by the city or to the
animal control officer, the city may seek a search warrant or any other
appropriate warrant or order from a magistrate judge of the district court and
seize the animal upon execution of the warrant. (Ord. 354, 11-7-2016)
6-2-28: PURPOSE OR INTENT; HARBORING:
   (A)   No person shall own or harbor any animal for the purpose of animal
fighting, or training, torment, badger, bait or use any animal for the purpose
of causing or encouraging said animal to make unprovoked attacks upon human
beings or domestic animals.
   (B)   No person shall possess with intent to sell, or offer for sale, breed
or buy or attempt to buy within the state any vicious animal. (Ord. 354, 11-7-
2016)
6-2-29: COMMANDING AN ANIMAL TO ATTACK; PROHIBITED:
Except where great bodily harm or death is likely to immediately ensue, it
shall be unlawful for any person to command, encourage or aid by word or
conduct, any animal to bite, chase, attack or attempt to bite, chase or attack,
another person or animal. (Ord. 354, 11-7-2016)
6-2-30: ACTION FOR DAMAGES; DESTRUCTION OF OFFENDING VICIOUS ANIMAL; CIVIL
PENALTY:
If any vicious animal shall, when unprovoked, kill or wound, or assist in
killing or wounding any sheep, lamb, cattle, horse, hog, swine, fowl or other
domestic animal, belonging to or in the possession of any person, or shall,
when unprovoked, attack, assault, bite or otherwise injure any human being or
assist in attacking, assaulting, biting or otherwise injuring any human being
while out of or within the enclosure of the owner or keeper of such vicious
animal, or while otherwise on or off the property of the owner whether or not
such vicious animal was on a leash and securely muzzled or whether the vicious
animal escaped without fault of the owner or keeper, the owner or keeper of
such animal shall be liable to the person aggrieved as aforesaid, for all
damages sustained, to be recovered in a civil action, with costs of suit. It is
rebuttably presumed as a matter of law that the owning, keeping or harboring of
a vicious animal in violation of this chapter is a nuisance. It shall not be
necessary, in order to sustain any such action, to prove that the owner of such
vicious animal knew that such vicious animal possessed the propensity to cause
such damage or that the vicious animal had a vicious nature. Upon such attack
or assault, the designated law enforcement agency for the city is hereby
empowered to confiscate and destroy such vicious animal, if the conduct of such
vicious animal or its owner constituted a violation of the provisions of this
chapter, punishable by the confiscation and destruction of the animal. (Ord.
354, 11-7-2016)
6-2-31: LIABILITY OF PARENTS FOR DAMAGES BY ANIMAL OWNED BY MINOR:
In the event that the owner of the vicious animal is a minor, the parent or
guardian of such minor shall be liable for all injuries and property damage
sustained by any person or domestic animal abused by an unprovoked attack by
said vicious animal. (Ord. 354, 11-7-2016)
6-2-32: VICIOUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
   (A)   Vicious Animals:
      1.   No animal which has been declared vicious by the animal control
board shall come into, remain in or be found in the city limits.
Any animal which has been declared vicious by the animal control board and
which is found within the city limits shall be confiscated and destroyed in an
expeditious and humane manner after the expiration of a five (5) day waiting
period exclusive of Sundays and holidays. In addition, the owner shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall pay a two hundred fifty dollar ($250.00)
fine.
      2.   If any vicious animal shall, when unprovoked, kill, wound, or assist
in killing or wounding any animal, the owner of said animal shall pay a two
hundred fifty dollar ($250.00) fine and the animal control officer is empowered
to confiscate and, after the expiration of a five (5) day waiting period
exclusive of Sundays and holidays, shall destroy said vicious animal. For each
subsequent violation the same owner of another vicious animal shall pay a fine
of three hundred dollars ($300.00).
      3.   If any vicious animal shall, when unprovoked, attack, assault,
wound, bite or otherwise injure or kill a human being, the owner shall pay a
five hundred dollar ($500.00) fine and the animal control officer is empowered
to and shall confiscate and, after the expiration of a five (5) day waiting
period exclusive of Sundays and holidays, shall destroy said vicious animal.
      4.   If any animal owner objects to the destruction of an animal pursuant
to this section, he/she shall file a petition with the Mayor or City Clerk and
a hearing on the merits shall be had before the City Council within fourteen
(14) days. The decision of the City Council shall be final and binding on all
parties.
      5.   A violation of either section
6-2-24, "Cruelty To Animals", or
6-2-25, "Dog Or Cock Fights", of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor punishable
by not less than thirty (30) days in the Payette County Jail and a fine of not
less than three hundred dollars ($300.00) but not more than one year in the
Payette County Jail or a fine of not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00).
      6.   Unless other penalties for specific acts are provided in the body of
this chapter, any violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor punishable
in accordance with the General Misdemeanor Statutes of the State.
      7.   No fine shall be suspended by any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 354, 11-7-2016)
6-2-33: FERAL CATS:
   (A)   Feral cats are hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   (B)   Feeding or sheltering feral cats is a violation of this section unless
the person doing so establishes to the City that he or she is working with a
licensed veterinarian to spay or neuter the cats in their care and provides to
the City documentation of such sterilization.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, keep, hold, board, feed or
harbor more than five (5) feral cats.
   (D)   Feeding or sheltering feral cats in violation of this section shall
constitute a public nuisance the abatement of which may be accomplished by the
seizure of, whether on public or private property, and/or the destruction of
such feral cats, or by any other means of abatement of a public nuisance
authorized by law.
   (E)   This section is not intended to prevent a private party from asserting
any legal rights he or she may have to enjoin or seek damages against a person
sheltering or feeding feral cats.
   (F)   Violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor. (Ord. 392,
5-6-2019)
***** CHAPTER 3
DOGS, ANIMALS *****
(Rep. by Ord. 116, 10-4-1976)
***** CHAPTER 4
ABANDONED CONTAINERS *****
SECTION:
6-4-1: Unlawful Act
6-4-1: UNLAWFUL ACT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to leave or permit to remain outside of any
dwelling, building or other structure, or within any unoccupied or abandoned
building, structure or dwelling under his control, in a place accessible to
children, any abandoned, unattended or discarded ice box, refrigerator or other
container which has a door or lid, snaplock or other locking device which may
not be released from the inside, without first removing said door or lid,
snaplock or other locking device. (1960 Code)
***** CHAPTER 5
AIR GUNS, FIREARMS *****
SECTION:
6-5-1: Definitions
6-5-2: Concealed Weapons (Rep. by Ord. 358, 6-5-2017)
6-5-3: Discharge Of Firearms Prohibited
6-5-4: Exceptions; Permits
6-5-5: Bow And Arrow, Blowgun Or Dart Gun Within City Limits
6-5-6: Bow And Arrow Permits
6-5-7: Insurance Required
6-5-8: Penalty
6-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
Wherever the term "firearms" is used in this chapter, the term shall mean any
instrument used in the propulsion of shot, shell or bullets or other harmful
objects by the action of gunpowder exploded within it, or by the action of
compressed air within it, or by the power of springs and including what are
commonly known as air rifles and BB guns. (Ord. 151, 2-1-1982, eff. 2-11-1982)
6-5-2: CONCEALED WEAPONS:
(Rep. by Ord. 358, 6-5-2017)
6-5-3: DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge firearms of any kind or
description within the limits of the Municipality; provided, however, that this
shall not apply to police officers in the discharge of their duties or to
private citizens acting in defense of themselves, others or in defense of their
property; provided further that this prohibition shall not apply to City of New
Plymouth Public Works employees while acting in the scope of their employment
within the City limits and while discharging firearms to eradicate, eliminate,
control or kill rock chucks, marmots or other vermin. (Ord. 351, 7-18-2016)
6-5-4: EXCEPTIONS; PERMITS:
The Governing Body may at any time, upon receipt of proper application, grant
permits to shooting galleries, gun clubs and others for shooting in fixed
localities and under specified rules. Such permits shall be in writing attested
by the Clerk conforming to such requirements as the Governing Body shall
demand, and the permit thus issued shall be subject to revocation at any time
by action of the Governing Body. (Ord. 151, 2-1-1982, eff. 2-11-1982)
6-5-5: BOW AND ARROW, BLOWGUN OR DART GUN WITHIN CITY LIMITS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or shoot an arrow from any bow
or discharge a dart, pellet or other projectile from a blowgun or a dart gun in
the City limits without first securing a permit from the City.
A violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to
exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) or six (6) months in jail, or both fine
and jail. (Ord. 233, 1-6-1997)
6-5-6: BOW AND ARROW PERMITS:
Permits may be secured after application to the City police, or any agency
authorized by the City Council when it is demonstrated by the applicant that
the bow and arrow to be used is a toy and use poses no danger to any person or
property or that use is pursuant to some organized course of instruction, or
that use will be conducted in such a manner that no person or property will be
endangered. Issuance of permits is discretionary with the issuing authority,
may be of any term, length or duration, and shall terminate, automatically,
without notice of any kind at the time set in the permit. (Ord. 151, 2-1-1982,
eff. 2-11-1982)
6-5-7: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
The issuing authority may withhold issuance of a permit until such time as
applicant signs an indemnity agreement holding the City harmless from any
damage which may arise from the use of the bow and arrow and shows proof of
coverage for liability insurance in an amount not to exceed one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00). (Ord. 151, 2-1-1982, eff. 2-11-1982)
6-5-8: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any section of this chapter shall be punished by a fine
not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) or by imprisonment in the County
Jail not to exceed three (3) months or by both fine and imprisonment. (Ord.
151, 2-1-1982, eff. 2-11-1982)
***** CHAPTER 6
MINORS *****
SECTION:
6-6-1: Runaways
6-6-2: Curfew
6-6-3: Encourage Delinquency
6-6-4: Violation, Penalty
6-6-1: RUNAWAYS:
It is unlawful for any child under eighteen (18) years of age who lives,
resides or is present within the city of New Plymouth to: a) run away or
attempt to run away from their parents, custodial parent, guardian or other
legally appointed custodian; b) to be present within the city limits after
having run away from their parents, custodial parent, guardian or other legally
appointed custodian while residing in another city; c) to do any act which
places the child beyond the control of their parents, custodial parent,
guardian or other legally appointed custodian; d) aid or abet any child in
being a runaway; e) fail to report to law enforcement or to the department of
health and welfare the whereabouts of a child who has violated this section
knowing the child to be in violation hereof. (Ord. 264, 12-4-2000)
6-6-2: CURFEW:
   (A)   Curfew Established:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of sixteen (16)
years to be or to remain, and it shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian or
other person having the care and custody of any person under the age of sixteen
(16) years to permit such person to be or to remain, in or upon any street,
alley, public ground, public places or any place open to the public or exposed
to public use within New Plymouth, between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00)
P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person from the age of sixteen (16)
years to the age of eighteen (18) years to be or to remain, and it shall be
unlawful for any parent, guardian or other person having the care and custody
of any person between the age of sixteen (16) years to eighteen (18) years to
permit such person to be or to remain in or upon any street, alley, public
ground, public places or any place open to the public or exposed to public use
within New Plymouth, between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and
five o'clock (5:00) A.M.
   (B)   Exceptions: The provisions of subsection (A) of this section shall not
apply to any person who is accompanied by his parent, guardian or other adult
person having the care and custody of him or her nor to any person who is in
the performance of an errand or duty directed by his or her parent, guardian or
other adult person having the care and custody of him or her nor to any person
who is actually at the time engaged in legitimate employment for profit.
   (C)   Evidence Of Violation:
      1.   The presence of a person under the age of sixteen (16) years in or
upon any street, alley, public ground, public places or any place open to the
public or exposed to the public use within the city between the hours of eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. not being accompanied by his
parents, guardian or one having legal custody of said child not being in the
performance of an errand or duty directed by his parent, guardian or other
adult person having the care and custody of him, nor being actually engaged in
legitimate employment for profit shall be prima facie evidence of the violation
of this section.
      2.   The presence of a person between the ages of sixteen (16) years and
eighteen (18) years in or upon any street, alley, public ground, public places
or any place open to the public or exposed to public use within the city
between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and five o'clock (5:00)
A.M. not being accompanied by his parent, guardian or one having legal custody
of said child, not being in the performance of an errand or duty directed by
his parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of him
nor being actually engaged in legitimate employment for profit, shall be prima
facie evidence of a violation of this section. (Ord. 139, 3-3-1980)
6-6-3: ENCOURAGE DELINQUENCY:
It shall be unlawful for any person by any act or neglect to encourage, aid or
cause any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to come within the
purview of section
6-6-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 139, 3-3-1980; amd. Ord. 198, 7-16-1990)
6-6-4: VIOLATION, PENALTY:
Violation of this chapter by a minor child shall bring said child within the
purview of the youth rehabilitation act of the state, and violation of this
chapter by an adult shall be punishable by imprisonment in the Payette County
jail for a period not to exceed six (6) months or by a fine not to exceed three
hundred dollars ($300.00), or by both such imprisonment and fine. (Ord. 139, 3-
3-1980)
***** CHAPTER 7
PLASTIC BAGS OR COVERINGS *****
SECTION:
6-7-1: Definition
6-7-2: Warning Required
6-7-3: Certain Bags a Nuisance
6-7-1: DEFINITION:
The words "plastic coverings," "plastic bag," or "plastic package" when used in
this Chapter shall mean any covering, package or bag made of plastic material
sufficiently thin and pliable to respond to static electricity created by
contact with the human body to the extent that it clings to the human skin or
body.
6-7-2: WARNING REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his possession, or to deliver as
a cover or wrapper, any plastic bag that is of sufficient size to fit over a
child's head, or any bag which, when open has an opening larger than twenty
five (25) square inches or a capacity of more than one hundred twenty five
(125) cubic inches, unless there is at all times clearly printed on such bag or
covering, or on a paper attached to such bag or covering, words in letters at
least one quarter inch (1/4) high as follows:
   WARNING: To avoid danger of suffocation keep this bag (or covering) away
from babies and children. Do not use in cribs, beds, carriages or play pens.
This is not a toy.
6-7-3: CERTAIN BAGS A NUISANCE:
Any plastic bag, covering or package not carrying or accompanied by the printed
warning as provided in Section
6-7-2 of this Chapter is hereby declared a nuisance. (1960 Code)
***** CHAPTER 8
WRECKED, DISMANTLED OR INOPERATIVE VEHICLES *****
SECTION:
6-8-1: Definition
6-8-2: Junk Vehicles a Nuisance
6-8-3: Maintenance of Junk Motor Vehicles or Parts Thereof Unlawful
6-8-4: Exemptions
6-8-5: Removal by City
6-8-6: Refusal to Remove Junk Vehicles or Parts Thereof Unlawful
6-8-7: Interference with Removal of Junk Vehicles or Parts Thereof Unlawful
6-8-1: DEFINITION:
A wrecked, dismantled or inoperative vehicle or part thereof, hereinafter
called a junk motor vehicle, shall be defined as an unsightly motor vehicle or
a part or parts therefrom, which meets any one of the following qualifications:
   (A)   It does not carry a current valid state registration and license
plate.
   (B)   It cannot be safely operated under its own power.
   (C)   It does not have any one of the following: Foot brakes, headlights,
taillights, horn, muffler, rear view mirrors, windshield wipers or adequate
fenders.
6-8-2: JUNK VEHICLES A NUISANCE:
The accumulation and storage of junk vehicles or parts thereof on private or
public property is hereby found to create a condition tending to reduce the
value of private property, to promote blight and deterioration, to invite
plundering, to create fire hazards, to constitute an attractive nuisance
creating a hazard to health, and safety to minors, to create a harborage for
rodents and insects and to be injurious to the health, safety and general
welfare. Therefore, the presence of a wrecked, dismantled or inoperative
vehicle or parts thereof on private or public property, except as expressly
hereinafter permitted, is hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance which
may be abated as such in accordance with the provisions of this Section.
6-8-3: MAINTENANCE OF JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES OR PARTS THEREOF UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons, firm, partnership or
corporation to maintain a junk motor vehicle, vehicles, or parts thereof on
residential property or business property for a period of more than thirty (30)
days.
6-8-4: EXEMPTIONS:
This Ordinance shall not apply to:
   (A)   A vehicle or part thereof which is completely enclosed within a
building in a lawful manner where it is not visible from the street or other
public or private property; or
   (B)   A vehicle or part thereof which is stored or parked in a lawful manner
on private property in connection with the business of a licensed dismantler,
licensed vehicle dealer, a junk dealer, or when such storage or parking is
necessary to the operation of a lawfully conducted business or commercial
enterprise; or
   (C)   Any vehicle or vehicles owned by a person or persons serving on active
duty outside the State of Idaho in the armed services of the United States of
America, provided, such vehicle or vehicles did not qualify as a junk motor
vehicle prior to becoming so engaged in such active service.
6-8-5: REMOVAL BY CITY:
The Police Chief, Fire Chief, or Building Inspector or their authorized
representative may order any junk motor vehicle, vehicles or parts thereof
removed within ten (10) days.
Notice of such order shall be placed upon said junk motor vehicle, vehicles or
parts thereof. Copies of said notice shall be served upon any adult occupying
the real estate on which the junk motor vehicle, vehicles or parts thereof are
located and upon the owner of the junk if known. If no occupant of the real
estate or owner of the junk vehicle, vehicles or parts thereof can be found, a
notice affixed to any building on the real estate shall constitute notice to
the owner or occupant of the real estate and to the owners of the junk motor
vehicle, vehicles or parts thereof. If there is no building on the real estate,
said notice may be affixed elsewhere on the real estate.
If said junk vehicle, vehicles, or parts thereof are not removed within the
time so fixed, the Police Chief, Fire Chief or Building Inspector or their
authorized representative may cause said junk vehicle, vehicles or parts
thereof to be removed and the actual costs of removal or tow-in charge and a
storage of not more than one dollar fifty cents ($1.50) per day for so long as
the same is in possession and custody of the City shall be charged to the
owner. In the event said junk motor vehicle, vehicles or parts thereof are not
claimed by the lawful owner, than and in that event the same shall be sold. To
defray the expense of removal of junk motor vehicle, vehicles or parts thereof
the City may levy a special assessment on the land or premises whereon the same
were maintained, as provided under Section 50-334 of the Idaho Code.
6-8-6: REFUSAL TO REMOVE JUNK VEHICLES OR PARTS THEREOF UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor for any person to fail or refuse to
remove a wrecked, junk motor vehicle, vehicles or parts thereof or refuse to
abate such nuisance when ordered to do so in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance.
6-8-7: INTERFERENCE WITH REMOVAL OF JUNK VEHICLES OR PARTS THEREOF UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor to interfere with, hinder, or refuse to
allow any authorized City officer or employee to enter upon private or public
property to enforce the provisions of this Ordinance. (Ord. 109; 1-7-74; Eff.
1-17-74)
***** CHAPTER 9
STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING *****
SECTION:
6-9-1: Definitions
6-9-2: Standing Or Parking Close To Curb
6-9-3: Permit For Loading Or Unloading At Angle To Curb
6-9-4: Vehicle Weight Limits
6-9-5: Stopping Or Parking Prohibited
6-9-6: Restrictions On Parking
6-9-7: Obstructing Traffic
6-9-8: All Night Parking Prohibited
6-9-9: Parking Of Trucks (Rep. by Ord. 285, 3-17-2003)
6-9-10: Parking For Certain Purposes Prohibited
6-9-11: Parking Adjacent To Schools
6-9-12: Parking Prohibited On Narrow Streets
6-9-13: Passenger And Freight Curb Loading Zones
6-9-14: Off Street Parking And Loading
6-9-15: Application Of Provisions
6-9-16: Regulations Not Excluded
6-9-17: Authority To Remove Vehicles
6-9-18: Vehicle Damaged During Removal, Nonliability
6-9-19: Liability For Towing And Storage Charges
6-9-20: City Not Liable
6-9-21: Request Vehicle Removal By Owner
6-9-22: Refusal To Remove Vehicle
6-9-23: Lien Against Vehicle
6-9-24: Removal By City
6-9-25: Vehicles Obstructing Emergency City Services
6-9-26: Parking Or Camping
6-9-27: Violations
6-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
PARKED VEHICLE: Includes, but is not necessarily limited to, any nonmoving
vehicle, whether licensed or unlicensed, functional or disabled.
VEHICLE: As defined by title 49 of the Idaho Code, but shall include all forms
of conveyances whether, motorized or not. (Ord. 192, 5-15-1989)
6-9-2: STANDING OR PARKING CLOSE TO CURB:
Other than in those areas marked for angle parking, it shall be unlawful to
stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel with the edge of the
roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement and with the
curbside wheels of the vehicle within eighteen inches (18") of the curb or edge
of the roadway. In any area zoned A, B, or C residential, where a curb is not
installed, it shall be unlawful to park on the maintained roadway surface.
(Ord. 192, 5-15-1989)
6-9-3: PERMIT FOR LOADING OR UNLOADING AT ANGLE TO CURB:
The clerk or police department are authorized to issue special permits for the
backing of a vehicle to the curb for the purpose of loading or unloading
merchandise or materials subject to the terms and conditions of such permit.
Such permits may be issued either to the owner or lessee of real property or to
the owner or lessee of the vehicle. It shall be unlawful for any permittee or
other person to violate any of the special terms or conditions of any such
permit. (Ord. 192, 5-15-1989)
6-9-4: VEHICLE WEIGHT LIMITS:
Vehicles exceeding gross weight of nine thousand (9,000) pounds per axle shall
be prohibited from traveling or parking where posted. (Ord. 192, 5-15-1989)
6-9-5: STOPPING OR PARKING PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to stop or park a vehicle, except in
compliance with or under the direction of a police officer or traffic control
device in any of the following places:
   (A)   On a sidewalk;
   (B)   In front of a public or private driveway;
   (C)   Within an intersection on any roadway surface;
   (D)   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant;
   (E)   On a crosswalk;
   (F)   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
   (G)   Within ten feet (10') of the driveway entrance to any fire station;
   (H)   Alongside or opposite any street obstruction or excavation when
stopping or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (I)   On a roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or curb
of a street;
   (J)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway;
   (K)   At any place where signs prohibit parking or stopping.
It shall be unlawful for any person to move a vehicle not lawfully under his
control into any such prohibited area or farther away from the curb than is
lawful. (Ord. 285, 3-17-2003)
6-9-6: RESTRICTIONS ON PARKING:
   (A)   Council Authority: The city council shall have the authority to impose
a parking time limit or to prohibit parking altogether on any street within the
corporate city limits. When parking restrictions are imposed upon an area, the
council, by motion and simple majority vote, shall designate the areas where
restrictions apply, the type of restrictions which shall be in force and shall
instruct the chief of police or any other city personnel to give notice as set
out below.
   (B)   Truck Parking: It shall be unlawful for any truck having a single axle
of over nine thousand (9,000) GVW when empty, or for any truck with three (3)
or more axles, or any truck or trailer, singly or when in combination, to park
in any residential neighborhood.
   (C)   Outside And Inside Boulevard: It shall be unlawful for any person to
park any motor vehicle in the grass on the city right of way along either the
inside or outside boulevards. An exception may be made by the city council on
those occasions when in the opinion of the council it is in the best interest
of the city to allow such parking.
   (D)   Notice: Notice of any parking restriction shall be adequate if such
notice is posted on the entrances to the city or on any corner of any street
upon which a parking restriction shall be applied.
   (E)   Unlawful Parking: It shall be unlawful for any person to park any
tractor, trailer, truck, recreational vehicle, camper, camper trailer, mobile
home, motor home, double wide, trailer house or semitrailer on the paved
portion of any street or street right of way, when that unit is supported by a
jack, footing, prop, brace, lever or other support that causes steel to rest
directly upon the pavement.
   (F)   Penalty: After parking has been prohibited or parking restrictions
have been imposed and proper signs placed, any person violating the posted
restriction shall be guilty of an infraction. Upon conviction for violating a
parking restriction a person shall be fined not less than fifty dollars
($50.00). (Ord. 285, 3-17-2003)
6-9-7: OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC:
It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle upon a street, alley or
roadway, in such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less
than ten feet (10') of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular
traffic. (Ord. 192, 5-15-1989)
6-9-8: ALL NIGHT PARKING PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle overnight where posted.
(Ord. 192, 5-15-1989)
6-9-9: PARKING OF TRUCKS:
(Rep. by Ord. 285, 3-17-2003)
6-9-10: PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle upon any roadway or upon
any portion of any road right of way for the purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying such vehicle for sale;
   (B)   Washing, maintaining or repairing such vehicle, except repairs
necessitated by any emergency;
   (C)   Selling merchandise from said vehicle without first obtaining a
license or permit;
   (D)   Displaying a vehicle for rent or lease or advertising any business
without first obtaining a permit from the city council. (Ord. 288, 7-7-2003)
6-9-11: PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS:
The city is hereby authorized to erect signs indicating no parking upon either
or both sides of any street adjacent to any school property when such parking
would interfere with traffic or create a hazardous situation as determined by
the city council. (Ord. 192, 5-15-1989)
6-9-12: PARKING PROHIBITED ON NARROW STREETS:
The city is hereby authorized to erect signs indicating no parking upon any
street when the width of the roadway does not exceed twenty feet (20') or upon
one side of a street as indicated by such signs when the width of the roadway
does not exceed thirty feet (30'). (Ord. 192, 5-15-1989)
6-9-13: PASSENGER AND FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONES:
   (A)   Loading Or Unloading Only: The City is hereby authorized to determine
the location of passenger and freight curb loading zones and shall place and
maintain appropriate signs indicating the same and stating the hours during
which the provisions of this chapter are applicable.
   (B)   Permits For Curb Loading Zones: The City shall not hereafter designate
or sign any curb loading zone upon special request of any person unless such
person makes application for a permit for such zone and for two (2) signs to
indicate the ends of each zone. Said permit fee shall be set and designated by
the Mayor and Council.
   (C)   Standing In Zones:
      1.   Passenger Curb Loading Zones: It shall be unlawful for any person to
stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or period of time other than the
expeditious loading or unloading of passengers in any place marked as passenger
curb loading zone during the hours when regulations applicable to such curb
loading zone are effective and then only for a period not to exceed three (3)
minutes. (Ord. 192, 5-15-1989)
6-9-14: OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
Refer to
title XI, chapter 12 of this Code. (Ord. 192, 5-15-1989)
6-9-15: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter prohibiting the standing or parking of any
vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times herein specified or as
indicated on official signs except when it is necessary to stop a vehicle to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the direction of a
police officer or official traffic-control device. (Ord. 192, 5-15-1989)
6-9-16: REGULATIONS NOT EXCLUDED:
The provisions of this chapter imposing a time limit on parking shall not
relieve any person from the duty to observe other and more restrictive
provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping, standing or parking of
vehicles in specific places or at specified times. (Ord. 192, 5-15-1989)
6-9-17: AUTHORITY TO REMOVE VEHICLES:
If any City police officer, or any employee or agent of the City, charged with
the responsibility of repairing, cleaning, clearing, maintaining, protecting,
regulating traffic on, sweeping or plowing City streets, encounters a vehicle
parked unlawfully on any posted street, that officer or employee or agent shall
have the authority to remove said vehicle, or contact some people or agency or
firm capable of removing said vehicle. (Ord. 192, 5-15-1989)
6-9-18: VEHICLE DAMAGED DURING REMOVAL, NONLIABILITY:
Any person authorized by this chapter to remove a parked vehicle, or that
person's designee, shall not be responsible for any damage done to the vehicle
during its removal, unless said damage is done intentionally, wilfully or as a
result of gross negligence. The City shall not be liable for any damage done to
any vehicle under any circumstances, nor shall the City be liable for any
damage or injury to any person or property if said damage was incurred as a
result of moving any vehicle, parked in violation of this chapter. (Ord. 192,
5-15-1989)
6-9-19: LIABILITY FOR TOWING AND STORAGE CHARGES:
Any person called upon by any officer or employee authorized to act pursuant to
this chapter to remove a parked vehicle shall have a lien against said vehicle
until all towing and storage charges are paid and satisfied in full by the
owner thereof. (Ord. 192, 5-15-1989)
6-9-20: CITY NOT LIABLE:
No officer, employee, agent, nor the City shall incur any liability from any
act arising from any person's failure to remove any vehicle parked in violation
of this chapter. (Ord. 192, 5-15-1989)
6-9-21: REQUEST VEHICLE REMOVAL BY OWNER:
The City shall have the authority to request that the owner, possessor, holder,
bailee, user or person in control of any vehicle parked on any City street move
the vehicle, when that vehicle impedes the performance of the supplying of any
Municipal service, to enable City crews to maintain, plow, clean, alter or
repair said street, or to perform any and all Municipal services as said
services may become necessary. (Ord. 192, 5-15-1989)
6-9-22: REFUSAL TO REMOVE VEHICLE:
Should any police officer or city employee make any request to any person
listed in section
6-9-21 of this chapter, and should that person by word or action refuse to
remove said vehicle after the request, the officer or city employee shall have
the authority to summon assistance and remove the vehicle at the owner's
expense. The officer or city employee authorized to make the request, or his
designee, shall not be responsible for any damage done to the vehicle during
its removal. (Ord. 192, 5-15-1989)
6-9-23: LIEN AGAINST VEHICLE:
Any person removing such a vehicle at the request of any person authorized to
make the request shall have a lien against the vehicle as provided for in
section
6-9-19 of this chapter. (Ord. 192, 5-15-1989)
6-9-24: REMOVAL BY CITY:
Should a city police officer or employee, after diligent inquiry, be unable to
locate any person who shall accept the responsibility of moving a vehicle which
the officer or employee determines needs to be moved, the officer or employee
shall have the authority to summon assistance and remove the vehicle at the
owner's expense without incurring liability for his actions. Any persons acting
on behalf of the city shall have the same lien rights as set forth above. (Ord.
192, 5-15-1989)
6-9-25: VEHICLES OBSTRUCTING EMERGENCY CITY SERVICES:
Should any parked vehicle, attended or unattended, impede, delay or obstruct
any police officer, any emergency vehicle or any municipal employee rendering
or attempting to render any emergency service at any time, the officer, driver
of the emergency vehicle, or employee offering emergency services shall have
the authority to remove the obstructing vehicle without notice or without any
attempt to notify the owner or any person in control of the vehicle. This
section shall not be construed as limiting any common law rights of officers or
persons rendering emergency services, but shall be construed as an additional
grant of authority. (Ord. 192, 5-15-1989)
6-9-26: PARKING OR CAMPING:
It is unlawful for any person to park any travel or camp trailer, tent or motor
home on any street, alley or highway or other public place, or on any tract of
land owned by any person occupied or unoccupied within the city except as
provided in this section as follows:
(A)   No person shall park, place or locate and use any travel or camp trailer,
tent or motor home for human habitation or for any other purpose on any street,
alley or highway or other public place, lot, tract or parcel of land in the
city except in a licensed trailer court or other facility licensed or
authorized for such purposes. The use of the Payette County Fairgrounds for
purposes authorized by the Payette County Fair Board is hereby expressly exempt
from the provisions of this section.
(B)   The parking of any unoccupied travel or camp trailer or motor home in any
accessory private garage or other suitable enclosure or in the side or rear
yard of a lot or property in any zone that allows such parking is hereby
expressly permitted.
(C)   A temporary permit may be issued to any non-resident person to be a
tourist or visitor, which will permit such person to park his/her travel
trailer, camp trailer or motor home upon a lot, tract or parcel of land in a
residential zone for a period not to exceed fourteen (14) days; provided
however, the permit shall be affixed to the vehicle in a conspicuous place on
the street side thereof; and provided further that such temporary permit shall
be issued only upon satisfactory evidence that proper sanitary facilities are
available. Such temporary permit shall require a fee as established by
resolution of the city council to be paid at the time the permit is issued.
Such permits may only be issued to persons visiting a resident within the city
of New Plymouth and such person must provide proof that the applicant for the
permit is a non-resident.
(D)   For purposes of this section, a person who owns or leases property in the
city of New Plymouth shall not be deemed a "non-resident".
(E)   A travel or camp trailer or motor home may be parked on a street or any
alley for a period of time not to exceed forty-eight (48) hours for the
purposes of loading and unloading; provided however that such parking shall not
obstruct access or travel on the street or in the alley. Under no circumstances
shall a travel or camp trailer or motor home be used for human habitation
during such periods of loading and unloading.
(F)   The provisions of this section shall not apply or affect new or used
trailer houses, travel or camp trailers, or motor homes for sale, stored or
placed on trailer sales lots, that have been established under proper permit
and license from the city and are otherwise subject to the regular building and
zoning provisions of the city.
(G)   A criminal misdemeanor citation to enforce a violation of the provisions
of this Section may be issued immediately by an appropriate law enforcement
officer. Civil enforcement of the provisions of this section shall require a
notice of abatement to be served upon the owner of the travel or camp trailer
or motor home forty eight (48) hours prior to any action (such as removal,
commencement of civil process or any other action) to enforce the provisions of
this section.
(H)   Any appropriate law enforcement officer shall order any person
habituating a travel or camp trailer or motor home to vacate said premises or
shall order the removal of a travel or camp trailer or motor home by serving a
notice of abatement as provided in subsection G of this section on the owner
thereof or by posting such notice on said travel or camp trailer or motor home.
   If said travel or camp trailer or motor home is not removed within the time
so fixed, the Police Chief or his authorized representative may cause said
travel or camp trailer or motor home to be removed and the actual costs of
removal, towing and storage shall be charged to the owner for as long as the
travel or camp trailer or motor home are in the possession and custody of the
city. If the owner fails to claim, retake possession and pay all costs as set
forth by this subsection within thirty (30) days of the city taking possession,
the city shall have the right to sell the travel or camp trailer or motor home
in order to recover the costs of taking possession.
(I)   In addition to the civil remedies provided by this section, violation of
the provisions of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor. (Ord. 245, 4-20-
1998; Ord. 394, 7-9-2019)
6-9-27: VIOLATIONS:
Each violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor. (Ord. 192, 5-15-1989)
***** CHAPTER 10
PUBLIC NUISANCE *****
SECTION:
6-10-1: Public Nuisance Defined
6-10-2: Public Nuisance, Unequal Damage
6-10-3: Reserved
6-10-4: Reserved
6-10-5: Specific Actions Or Conditions, Public Nuisances
6-10-6: Additional Powers
6-10-7: Violation; Penalty
6-10-8: Abatement
6-10-9: Additional Rights Of Abatement
6-10-10: Remedies Not Exclusive
6-10-1: PUBLIC NUISANCE DEFINED:
Anything which is injurious to health, or is indecent, or offensive to the
senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere with
the comfortable enjoyment of life or property by an entire community or
neighborhood, or by a considerable number of persons, or unlawfully obstructs
the free passage or use, in the customary manner, or any canal, basin, or any
public park, square, street or highway, is a public nuisance. (Ord. 349, 5-2-
2016)
6-10-2: PUBLIC NUISANCE, UNEQUAL DAMAGE:
An act which affects an entire community or neighborhood, or any considerable
number of persons, as specified in the last section, is not less a nuisance
because the extent of the annoyance or damage inflicted upon individuals is
unequal. (Ord. 349, 5-2-2016)
6-10-3: RESERVED:
(Ord. 349, 5-2-2016)
6-10-4: RESERVED:
(Ord. 349, 5-2-2016)
6-10-5: SPECIFIC ACTIONS OR CONDITIONS, PUBLIC NUISANCES:
Any of the following actions, omissions or conditions which exist or which may
be allowed to exist are declared to be public nuisances:
   (A)   Allowing any number or amount of household appliances, furnishings,
fixtures, accessories, supplies or equipment to accumulate and remain for more
than seven (7) days outside of a building or permanent enclosure.
   (B)   Allowing discarded or junk items to accumulate in any manner which
creates an unsightly appearance.
   (C)   Allowing any amount of garbage to accumulate upon any premises.
   (D)   Allowing any items to be permanently stored upon any premises outside
of a permanent structure. Evidence that an item has remained unused or unmoved
for a period of one hundred eighty (180) days shall be evidence of permanent
storage.
   (E)   Allowing any condition to exist which would create any type of fire
hazard.
   (F)   Allowing weeds, grasses or bushes to grow in a tall or unsightly
manner.
   (G)   Allowing buildings to become rundown or to fall into such a state of
disrepair as to constitute an unsightly appearance, a fire hazard, or an
attractive nuisance; or which would fall into such a state of disrepair as to
create a hazard of any sort.
   (H)   Allowing a vacant building to be used for any immoral or illegal
purposes.
   (I)   Storing, accumulating or allowing any amount of junk, unused or
discarded materials adjacent to any schoolhouse, church, public park, public
grounds, business buildings or a residence without first providing proper and
tight buildings for the storage of the same. (Ord. 349, 5-2-2016)
6-10-6: ADDITIONAL POWERS:
This list of specific nuisances shall not be construed as in any way limiting
the definition of a public or moral nuisance, either within this chapter or at
common law, but shall be construed as powers enumerated in addition to those
conferred by the general definition or at common law. (Ord. 349, 5-2-2016)
6-10-7: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who violates this chapter or commits any act or who allows any
condition to exist which is a violation of this chapter, or who by reason of a
landlord-tenant relationship, or as owner of said property aids in the
commission of any act which is a violation of this chapter, or who by reason of
any of the above set out relationships can require the owner or occupant to
cease any action which is in violation of this chapter, but fails to do so,
after acquiring knowledge of the existence of said condition shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor, punishable by one year in the Payette County Jail or by a fine
of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by both such fine and imprisonment.
Every day any condition is allowed to exist which is in violation of this
chapter shall be a distinct and separate offense. (Ord. 349, 5-2-2016)
6-10-8: ABATEMENT:
If any condition is allowed to exist which is defined as a nuisance pursuant to
any section of this code, public, private, moral or otherwise, the city may
proceed to abate the same.
   (A)   If the city finds any public, private or moral nuisance to exist as
defined by Idaho Code or by any of the above sections, the city may without
notice, criminally prosecute the owners or occupants of the buildings in which
the public, private or moral nuisance is found to exist; in addition, the city
may seek injunction relief to permanently enjoin any further conduct or actions
which would constitute a public, private or moral nuisance.
   (B)   Should the director of public works, the building inspector, any
member of the city's designated law enforcement agency or any other person
designated by the mayor or city council, find any nuisance to exist, they shall
cause notice to be sent to the owner, caretaker or occupant of the premises
advising said person or persons of the nature of the nuisance. Said notice
shall be sent by regular mail and shall state the nature of the nuisance. The
notice shall advise said person or persons that the nuisance must be abated
within ten (10) days from the date of notice. Notice shall be complete upon the
date of mailing. If within ten (10) days from the date of mailing the nuisance
has not been abated, the city shall have the right, without further notice, to
enter the premises, abate the nuisance, and bill the occupant or landowner. If
payment is not forthcoming, the city shall have the right within ninety (90)
days to file a lien against said property for the value of services provided.
The city shall further have the right to foreclose its lien against said
property and include as a lienable item, all court costs, attorney fees, costs
of notice and all incidental costs. The city shall retain all rights of action
in addition to those provided herein. Nothing in this section shall preclude
the city from filing criminal actions without notice, for violations hereof.
   (C)   The city's right to abate any nuisance shall include, but not be
limited to, the following rights:
      1.   To enter upon real property and remove any item, or vehicle bodies
listed in subsections
6-10-5(A) through (I) of this chapter.
      2.   To remove or demolish any object, building, thing or condition which
would constitute a fire hazard.
      3.   To cut and remove any weeds or grasses allowed to grow in a tall or
unsightly manner.
      4.   To board up, demolish, repair, tear down or remove any building
which has fallen into such a state of disrepair so as to have an unsightly
appearance, or
      5.   To take any steps necessary to keep persons from entering into
vacant buildings for immoral or illegal purposes. (Ord. 349, 5-2-2016)
6-10-9: ADDITIONAL RIGHTS OF ABATEMENT:
This list shall not be deemed as an enumeration of all the rights of abatement,
nor as limiting the city in any manner nor as an exhaustive list of abatement
rights, but shall be construed as providing rights in addition to any other
rights of abatement provided by statute or at common law. (Ord. 349, 5-2-2016)
6-10-10: REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The remedies in this chapter shall not be deemed exclusive remedies, but may be
pursued individually, separately or jointly or concurrently. (Ord. 349, 5-2-
2016)
***** CHAPTER 11
GARAGE SALES *****
SECTION:
6-11-1: Definition
6-11-2: Permits Required
6-11-3: Written Permit
6-11-4: Permit Fees
6-11-5: Permit Conditions
6-11-6: Display Of Permit
6-11-7: Revocation And Refusal Of Permit
6-11-8: Hours Of Operation
6-11-9: Display Of Sale Property
6-11-10: Advertising Signs
6-11-11: Appeals
6-11-12: Penalty
6-11-1: DEFINITION:
"Garage sale" shall mean and include all general sales open to the public,
conducted from or on any residential premises in any residential zone, for the
purpose of disposing of personal property including, but not limited to, all
sales entitled "garage", "lawn", "yard", "attic", "porch", "room", "backyard",
"patio", or "moving". This definition shall not include a sale where no more
than five (5) specific items are held out for sale and all advertisement for
such sale specifically names those items to be sold. For purposes of this
definition of "garage sale", personal property shall mean property which is
utilized, owned and maintained by an individual or by members of his residence
and acquired in the normal course of living in or maintaining a residence. It
does not include merchandise which was purchased for resale or obtained on
consignment. (Ord. 254, 7-19-1999)
6-11-2: PERMITS REQUIRED:
No garage sale shall be conducted unless and until the individual desiring to
conduct said sale shall obtain a permit therefor from the City. Multiple-
resident garage sales shall be allowed under one permit, but shall be limited
to or conducted at the residence of one resident named in the permit. (Ord.
254, 7-19-1999)
6-11-3: WRITTEN PERMIT:
Permits shall require the following information:
   (A)   Full name and address of applicant.
   (B)   The location/address at which the proposed garage sale is to be held.
   (C)   The date, or dates upon which the sale is to be held.
   (D)   An affirmative statement the property to be sold was owned by the
applicant, was owned as applicant's personal property and was neither acquired
nor consigned for the purpose of resale.
   (E)   A statement that all off-yard advertising shall be cleaned up or
removed. (Ord. 254, 7-19-1999)
6-11-4: PERMIT FEES:
No permit fees will be charged. (Ord. 254, 7-19-1999)
6-11-5: PERMIT CONDITIONS:
The permit shall set forth and restrict the time and location of such sale. No
more than three (3) permits may be issued to one residence and/or family
household during any calendar year. If members of more than one residence join
in requesting a permit, then such permit shall be considered as having been
issued for each and all of such residences.
   (A)   No permit issued under this Section may be used by a person other than
the one to whom the license is issued or a person named in the permit. (Ord.
254, 7-19-1999)
6-11-6: DISPLAY OF PERMIT:
Any permit issued pursuant to the terms and provisions of this Chapter shall be
posted on the premises of the garage sale in a conspicuous place so as to be
seen by the public and officers of the New Plymouth Police Department. (Ord.
254, 7-19-1999)
6-11-7: REVOCATION AND REFUSAL OF PERMIT:
Any permit issued under this Chapter may be revoked or any application for
issuance of a permit may be refused or revoked for any of the following causes:
   (A)   The application submitted by the applicant or permit holder contains
any false, fraudulent or misleading information;
   (B)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made in the course of
carrying on the licensed activity;
   (C)   Any violation of this Chapter;
   (D)   Conducting the licensed activity in an unlawful manner or in such a
manner as to constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of
the public. (Ord. 254, 7-19-1999)
6-11-8: HOURS OF OPERATION:
Garage sales shall be limited in time to no more than three (3) consecutive
days of the dates specified on the permit. (Ord. 254, 7-19-1999)
6-11-9: DISPLAY OF SALE PROPERTY:
Personal property offered for sale may be displayed within the residence, in a
garage, carport and/or in the yard of the residence, but only in such areas. No
property offered shall be displayed on any public right of way. (Ord. 254, 7-
19-1999)
6-11-10: ADVERTISING SIGNS:
Only the following specified signs may be displayed in relation to a pending
garage sale:
   (A)   Signs At The Residence: Two (2) signs of not more than three (3)
square feet shall be permitted to be displayed on the property of the residence
of the garage sale.
   (B)   Directional Signs: Two (2) directional signs of not more than two (2)
square feet each are permitted, provided that permission to erect or post said
sign prior to posting any directional sign is received from the property owners
upon whose property such signs are to be placed.
   (C)   Placement Of Signs: Signs shall not be attached to any utility pole,
telephone pole, street sign or be placed in or on public rights of way.
   (D)   Time Limitations: No sign or other form of advertisement shall be
exhibited for more than two (2) days prior to the day such sale is to commence.
Yard sales should be limited to daylight hours only.
   (E)   Removal Of Signs: All signs must be removed within twenty four (24)
hours of the termination of the garage sale. (Ord. 254, 7-19-1999)
6-11-11: APPEALS:
Any person aggrieved by the actions of the City in denial of a license or the
revocation of a license shall have the right of appeal to the City Council. Any
such appeal shall be taken by filing with the Clerk within ten (10) days after
notice of the action complained of, a written notice setting forth fully the
ground for the appeal. The applicant shall be advised of the time and place set
for the hearing of the appeal by letter mailed to the applicant at his last
known address at least five (5) days prior to the date set for hearing, or it
shall be delivered by a member of the New Plymouth Police Department in the
same manner as a summons at least three (3) days prior to the date set for
hearing. The City Council shall act upon the appeal within thirty (30) days
after receipt of said notice of appeal, and its action shall be final. (Ord.
254, 7-19-1999)
6-11-12: PENALTY:
Any person conducting any such yard sale without having the proper permit
therefor or who shall violate any of the terms or conditions of this Chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalties of the general
misdemeanor statutes of the State. Provided, however, there shall be a minimum
mandatory fine of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for the first offense and a
minimum mandatory fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) for the second offense. (Ord.
254, 7-19-1999)
***** CHAPTER 12
NOISE CONTROL *****
SECTION:
6-12-1: Definitions
6-12-2: Violation Criteria
6-12-3: Public Nuisance And Disturbance Noises Defined
6-12-4: Public Nuisance And Disturbance Noise Violations
6-12-5: Noises Exempt At All Times
6-12-6: Noises Exempt; Daytime Hours
6-12-7: Criminal Punishment For Violations And Crimes
6-12-8: Evidence In Criminal Proceedings
6-12-9: Provisions Not Exclusive
6-12-10: Prohibited Uses
6-12-11: Prohibited Acts
6-12-12: Penalty
6-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
A-WEIGHTING: A means of adjusting frequency specific sound pressure level
measurements to reflect the approximate response of the human ear. A-weighting
adjustments to full octave frequency bands are: -26dB @ 63Hz, -16dB @ 125Hz, -
9dB @ 250Hz, -3dB @ 500Hz, OdB @ 1kHz, + 1dB @ 4kHz and -1dB @ 8kHz. (See
definitions of Sound Pressure Level; C-Weighting.)
AMBIENT SOUND: The all encompassing sound associated with a given environment
at a specific time. Usually it is a composite of sounds from many sources and
directions, but not including any contribution from specific noise sources
under investigation.
AUTHORIZED PUBLIC EVENTS: One time, special outdoor events, conducted pursuant
to and in accordance with a city issued permit or with city authorization. For
the purposes of the exemption from the provisions of this chapter, all events
thus authorized shall begin no earlier than seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and
terminate no later than ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on weekdays and eleven o'clock
(11:00) P.M. on weekends.
C-WEIGHTING: A means of adjusting frequency specific sound pressure level
measurements. C-weighting adjustments are made to only three (3) octave bands:
-1dB @ 63Hz, -1dB @ 4kHz, and -3dB @ 8kHz. The use of C-weighting produces a
nearly flat (unweighted) response, and gives a more accurate indication of low
frequency energy than A-weighting. (See definitions of Sound Pressure Level; A-
Weighting.)
COMMERCIAL AREA: Any area zoned and/or utilized for commercial purposes.
COMMERCIAL PROPERTY: Any premises, property or facility located in a commercial
area.
CONTINUOUS NOISE: A constant or continual sound, or a repetitive series of
sounds, lasting more than five (5) minutes in any fifteen (15) minute period.
DAY-NIGHT AVERAGE SOUND LEVEL (DNL. L d n): The twenty four (24) hour
equivalent continuous (A-weighted) sound level, in decibels, from twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight to twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight, obtained after the
addition of ten (10) decibels to sound levels from twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight to seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., and from ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. to
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight.
DAYTIME: The period of day from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. until seven o'clock
(7:00) P.M.
DECIBEL (dB, dBA): A logarithmic unit of measure based on the ratio of a
measured parameter to a reference unit. (See definition of Sound Pressure
Level.)
ELECTRONICALLY AMPLIFIED SOUND: Any sound which has been amplified, enlarged,
manipulated or produced by any electronic process or means, e.g., loudspeaker
system, public address system, sound amplification equipment, or any such
similar device.
EMERGENCY: Any occurrence or circumstance involving physical trauma, property
damage, actual or potential loss, and/or endangerment of the public, which
demands immediate attention.
EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Any police, fire or other public service vehicle or
conveyance which is actively engaged in emergency work, emergency
transportation, firefighting or law enforcement activities.
EMERGENCY WORK: Any activities, performed by authorized individuals or
organizations, in the course of or pursuant to an emergency situation. This
includes firefighting, law enforcement, infrastructure repair, delivery of
essential services, and activities necessary to prevent a potential emergency
from occurring.
EQUIVALENT CONTINUOUS SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL (Leq): The level, in decibels, of a
steady sound which, over a stated time period and at a stated location, has the
same A-weighted sound energy as a time varying sound. (See definitions of Sound
Pressure; Sound Pressure Level; Maximum Sound Pressure Level.)
EVENING: The period of day from seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. until ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M.
FREQUENCY (Hz): In acoustics, the number of times in one second that a sound
pressure wave fluctuates about a reference point. One hertz (Hz) is equal to
one cycle per second. Humans are capable of hearing sound with frequencies from
approximately 20 Hz to 20,000 Hz.
HERTZ (Hz): See definition of Frequency.
INDUSTRIAL AREA: Any area zoned and/or utilized for industrial purposes.
INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY: Any premises, property, facility or equipment located in
an industrial area.
INTENSE PURE TONE: Any pure tone source of thirty (30) seconds duration or
longer, in which the instantaneous sound pressure level of the one-third (1/3)
octave frequency band containing the tone exceeds the arithmetical average of
the sound pressure levels of the two (2) contiguous one-third (1/3) octave
bands (upper and lower) by eight (8) decibels or more for frequencies 500 Hz
and above, and by eleven (11) decibels or more for frequencies below 500 Hz.
MAXIMUM SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL (Lmax): The highest sound pressure level observed
during a measurement. On meters equipped to capture and record this parameter,
it is the highest RMS sound pressure level which occurs during a measurement
interval. This is not the same as "peak level". (See definitions of Sound
Pressure; Sound Pressure Level; Equivalent Continuous Sound Pressure Level.)
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any nonagricultural land vehicle with mechanized (nonhuman)
propulsion, including, but not limited to: automobiles; trucks, buses;
recreational vehicles; motorcycles; motorized bicycles, off road vehicles; high
performance, racing and/or competition vehicles; trucks and tractors modified
for nonhighway use; snowmobiles.
NIGHTTIME: The period of day from ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. until seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M.
NOISE/SOUND SOURCE: Any building, structure, property, equipment, vehicle,
operation, process, action, person, or phenomenon which generates and/or
propagates a sound or noise.
OCTAVE: The frequency interval between two (2) sounds whose frequency ratio is
one-half (0.5) or two (2).
OCTAVE BAND: A standardized segment of the audio frequency spectrum, one octave
wide, with a defined center frequency. Standard octave band center frequencies
are 63, 125, 250, 500, 1000, 2000, 4000 and 8000 Hz.
ONE-THIRD OCTAVE BAND: Similar to octave bands, except the bandwidth is only
one-third (1/3) of the full octave bandwidth. One-third (1/3) octave analysis
provides a more detailed spectrum, which is necessary to identify pure tone
components.
OVERALL (OR LINEAR) MEASUREMENTS: A logarithmic summation of frequency specific
sound pressure level measurements (octave band or 1/3 octave band
measurements). Overall measurements are single number descriptors of sound
pressure level.
PERCENTAGE EXCEEDANCE SOUND LEVEL (L10, L90, Etc.): The A-weighted sound level,
in decibels, equaled or exceeded by a varying sound source during the stated
percentage of a measurement period. For example, L10 = 80 dBa would indicate
that the A-weighted sound level exceeded eighty (80) decibels for ten percent
(10%) of the measurement period.
PERSON: Any individual, group of individuals, corporation, company,
association, society, firm or partnership; the state or any political
subdivision, agency or instrumentality of the state. Any entity, as described
in the preceding sentence, which produces or creates electronically amplified
sound, which owns and/or operates any facility where electronically amplified
sound is created or produced, or which is responsible for planning, promoting
or scheduling any event that produces or creates electronically amplified
sound.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Any real property, or structures thereon, that is leased,
owned or controlled by a public or governmental entity, or privately owned
property open to the public.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: Any street, avenue, boulevard, road, alley, highway,
freeway or sidewalk that is leased, owned or controlled by a public or
governmental entity.
PURE TONE: A sound or noise which has distinct and identifiable tonal
components and a duration of thirty (30) seconds or longer. A pure tone exists
if the instantaneous sound pressure level of the one-third (1/3) octave
frequency band containing the majority of the tonal energy exceeds the
arithmetic average of the sound pressure levels of the two (2) contiguous one-
third (1/3) octave bands (upper and lower) by five (5) decibels or more for
frequencies 500 Hz and above, and by eight (8) decibels or more for frequencies
below 500 Hz. (See definition of Intense Pure Tone.)
RECEIVER/RECEIVING PROPERTY: Any person who hears, or any property or location
which is subject to and/or affected by a noise source.
RESIDENTIAL AREA: Any area zoned and/or utilized for residential purposes.
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY: Any premises or property located in a residential area.
SCHOOL SPONSORED ACTIVITIES: Any outdoor activity or event which is authorized
by a legitimate school or educational authority.
SOUND: A pressure fluctuation in the air that is capable of being detected by
the human ear. Important characteristics of sound are the amplitude of the
pressure wave (level), the frequency (pitch), and the time duration of the
sound.
SOUND PRESSURE: An instantaneous increase/decrease in local atmospheric
pressure produced by acoustical or sound energy, measured in pascals.
SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL (SPL, Lp): A logarithmic representation of the amplitude
of a sound wave. Sound pressure level, in decibels, is equal to twenty (20)
times the common logarithm of the measured sound pressure, in pascals, divided
by twenty (20) micropascals. (See definitions of A-Weighting; C-Weighting;
Equivalent Continuous Sound Pressure Level; Maximum Sound Pressure Level.)
SPECTRUM: The total frequency specific content of a noise source, usually
described/displayed as a graph of frequency versus sound pressure level.
WEEKDAY: Any time after six o'clock (6:00) P.M. Sunday night and before six
o'clock (6:00) P.M. Friday night.
WEEKEND: Any time after six o'clock (6:00) P.M. Friday night and before six
o'clock (6:00) P.M. Sunday. (Ord. 278, 9-16-2002)
6-12-2: VIOLATION CRITERIA:
   (A)   Electronically Amplified Sound: No person shall cause, suffer, allow,
or permit the operation of any source of electronically amplified sound on or
in any property, public space, or right of way, in such a manner that the sound
pressure level produced by the source exceeds the limits set forth in
subsection (B) of this section.
   (B)   Allowable Sound Pressure Levels: Table 1 of this section sets forth
the maximum allowable overall sound pressure levels produced by any source of
electronically amplified sound, as a function of receiving property category,
time of day and type of measurement and weighting.
   TABLE 1
   MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE SOUND PRESSURE LEVELS
   Receiving Property Category
Measurement Residential    Commercial       Industrial
Type        Day Eve. Night Day + Eve. Night All Times
Measurement       Residential    Commercial       Industrial
Type              Day Eve. Night Day + Eve. Night All Times
                 A-WEIGHTED LEVELS
Maximum (Lmax)    75  70   65    85         75    90
10% Exceed. (L10) 65  60   55    75         65    85
Equivalent                                    
Continuous (Leq)  60  55   50    70         60    80
50% Exceed. (L50) 60  55   50    70         60    80
                 C-WEIGHTED LEVELS
Maximum (Lmax)    80  75   70                    
10% Exceed. (L10) 70  65   60                    
Equivalent                                    
Continuous (Leq)  65  60   55                    
50% Exceed. (L50) 65  60   55                    
 
   (C)   Violations Enumerated: Any of the following acts are a violation of
this chapter:
      1.   The maximum sound pressure level equals or exceeds the appropriate
Lmax criterion shown in table 1 of this section at any instant.
      2.   The ten percent (10%) exceedance level (sound level exceeded during
10 percent of the measurement period) equals or exceeds the appropriate L10
criterion shown in table 1 of this section, at the conclusion of a continuous
measurement period of at least fifteen (15) minutes;
Alternatively, a violation pursuant to this criterion is indicated if the
observed sound pressure level equals or exceeds the appropriate L10 criterion
shown in table 1 of this section, for a cumulative total of ninety (90)
seconds, or one and one-half (1.5) minutes, during any fifteen (15) minute
measurement period.
      3.   The equivalent continuous sound pressure level equals or exceeds the
appropriate Leq criterion shown in table 1 of this section, at the conclusion
of a continuous measurement period of at least fifteen (15) minutes.
      4.   The fifty percent (50%) exceedance level (sound level exceeded
during 50 percent of the measurement period) equals or exceeds the appropriate
L50 criterion shown in table 1 of this section, at the conclusion of a
continuous measurement period of at least fifteen (15) minutes;
Alternatively, a violation pursuant to this criterion is indicated if the
observed sound pressure level equals or exceeds the appropriate L50 criterion
shown in table 1 of this section, for a cumulative total of seven and one-half
(7.5) minutes, during any fifteen (15) minute measurement period.
      5.   Example: A violation would occur in the evening (7:00 P.M. - 10:00
P.M.), in a residential location, if:
Per subsection (C)1 of this section, the maximum sound pressure level (Lmax) is
70 dBA/75dBC or higher at any time, and/or
Per subsection (C)2 of this section, the ten percent (10%) exceedance sound
pressure level (00) is 60 dBA/65dBC or higher at the conclusion of a minimum
fifteen (15) minute measurement, and/or
Per subsections (C)3 and (C)4 of this section, the equivalent continuous sound
pressure level (Leq) and/or the fifty percent (50%) exceedance sound pressure
level (L50) is 55 dBA/60dBC or higher at the conclusion of a minimum fifteen
(15) minute measurement.
   (D)   Pure Tones:
      1.   A sound source which propagates an intense pure tone to any
receiving location, regardless of the overall sound pressure level, is in
violation of this chapter;
      2.   The compliance limits set forth in table 1 of this section shall be
reduced by five (5) decibels for any source which propagates a pure tone to any
receiving location. (Ord. 278, 9-16-2002)
6-12-3: PUBLIC NUISANCE AND DISTURBANCE NOISES DEFINED:
The following sources of sound are hereby defined to be public nuisances,
except to the extent that they may be specifically exempted by other provisions
of this chapter:
   (A)   Frequent, repetitive or continuous noise made by any animal which
unreasonably disturbs or interferes with peace, comfort and repose of property
owners or possessors, except that such sounds shall be exempt when originating
from lawfully operated animal shelters, kennels, pet shops, and veterinary
clinics.
   (B)   The frequent, repetitive or continuous sounding of any horn or siren
attached to a motor vehicle, except as a warning of danger or as specifically
permitted or required by law.
   (C)   The creation of frequent, repetitive or continuous noise in connection
with the starting, operation, repair, rebuilding, or testing of any motor
vehicle, motorcycle, off highway vehicle, or internal combustion engine, so as
to unreasonably disturb or interfere with the peace, comfort and repose of
owners or possessors of real property.
   (D)   Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or singing on or near the public
streets, particularly between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., or at any time and place so as to unreasonably
disturb or interfere with the peace, comfort and repose of owners or possessors
of real property.
   (E)   The use of a sound amplifier or other device capable of producing or
reproducing amplified sound on public streets for the purpose of commercial
advertising or sales or for attracting the attention of the public to any
vehicle, structure or property of the contents therein.
   (F)   The making of any loud and raucous noise which unreasonably interferes
with the use of any school, church, assisted living facility, nursing or
convalescent facility.
   (G)   The creation of frequent, repetitive or continuous sounds which
emanate from any building, structure, apartment, or condominium which
unreasonably interferes with the peace, comfort and repose of owners or
possessors of real property, such as sounds from musical instruments, audio
sound systems, band sessions, or social gatherings.
   (H)   Sound from audio equipment such as, but not limited to, boom boxes,
tape players, radios and compact disc players, operated at such a volume that
the sounds emanating therefrom are audible at a distance greater than seventy
five feet (75') from the source. (Ord. 278, 9-16-2002)
6-12-4: PUBLIC NUISANCE AND DISTURBANCE NOISE VIOLATIONS:
It is unlawful for any person to cause or allow to originate, or for any person
in possession of property to allow to originate from said property, sound that
is a public nuisance. (Ord. 278, 9-16-2002)
6-12-5: NOISES EXEMPT AT ALL TIMES:
   (A)   The following noises are exempt from the provisions of this chapter at
all times; provided, that nothing in these exemptions is intended to preclude
the city from requiring installation of the best available noise abatement
technology consistent with economic feasibility:
      1.   Noise originating from aircraft in flight.
      2.   Noise created by safety and protective devices, such as relief
valves where noise suppression would defeat the safety release intent of the
device.
      3.   Noise created by fire alarms.
      4.   Noise created by emergency equipment, including, but not limited to,
emergency standby or backup equipment; emergency work necessary in the interest
of law enforcement or of the health, safety or welfare of the community,
including, but not limited to, any emergency work necessary to replace or
repair essential utility services.
      5.   Noise created by auxiliary equipment on motor vehicles used for
highway maintenance.
      6.   Noise originating from officially sanctioned parades, sporting
events, and other public events.
      7.   Noise created by warning devices not operated continuously for more
than thirty (30) minutes per incident.
      8.   Noise originating from existing natural gas transmission facilities,
subject to any requirements that may be established by appropriate state or
federal agencies.
      9.   Noise created by existing stationary equipment used in the
conveyance of water by utility and noise created by existing electrical
substations.
      10.   Noise created by the operation of equipment of facilities by a
railroad in interstate commerce.
      11.   Noise emanating from temporary construction sites except between
the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. on
weekdays, and except between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) P.M. and eight
o'clock' (8:00) A.M. on Saturdays, Sundays, and state recognized holidays.
(Ord. 278, 9-16-2002)
6-12-6: NOISES EXEMPT; DAYTIME HOURS:
The following noises shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter
between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on
weekdays and nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on weekends:
   (A)   Noise created by powered equipment used in temporary or periodic
maintenance or repair of residential property including, but not limited, to
grounds and appurtenances, such as lawn mowers, powered hand tools, and
composters.
   (B)   Noise created by the discharge of firearms by the Payette County
sheriff's deputies or New Plymouth city police officers while acting in the
course of their law enforcement duties.
   (C)   Noise created by the installation or repair of essential utility
services.
   (D)   Noise created by blasting.
   (E)   Noise created by bells, chimes or carillons not operating for more
than five (5) minutes in any one hour. (Ord. 278, 9-16-2002)
6-12-7: CRIMINAL PUNISHMENT FOR VIOLATIONS AND CRIMES:
Every offense defined by this chapter or conduct made unlawful hereby shall
also constitute an offense under the criminal code, and any person convicted of
such an offense shall be punished by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars
($500.00) or by imprisonment in jail not to exceed six (6) months, or both
imprisonment and fine. (Ord. 278, 9-16-2002)
6-12-8: EVIDENCE IN CRIMINAL PROCEEDINGS:
In any criminal prosecution under this chapter, evidence of sound level through
the use of a sound level meter reading shall not be necessary to establish the
commission of the offense. Nor shall it be necessary for any peace officer or
witness to understand and interpret the technical information set forth herein.
(Ord. 278, 9-16-2002)
6-12-9: PROVISIONS NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The provisions of this chapter shall be cumulative and nonexclusive, and shall
not affect any other claim, cause of action or remedy, nor, unless specifically
provided, shall this chapter be deemed to repeal, amend or modify any law,
ordinance or regulation relating to noise, but shall be deemed additional to
existing legislation and common law on noise. (Ord. 278, 9-16-2002)
6-12-10: PROHIBITED USES:
   (A)   No person shall produce, cause to be produced, or allow to be
produced, by any means, any sound within any property which, when measured
inside or at the property line of the property receiving said noise, exceeds
the applicable sound level limits set forth in table 1 and as measured as set
forth in section
6-12-2 of this chapter.
   (B)   No person shall produce, cause to be produced, or allow to be
produced, by any means, any sound on any street adjacent to any school, church,
institution of learning, court while in session, or hospital which, when
measured inside or at the property line of said school, church, institution of
learning, court while in session, or hospital receiving said noise, exceeds the
applicable sound level limits set forth in table 1 and measured as set forth in
section
6-12-2 of this chapter; provided, however, that streets adjacent to those
properties shall be clearly marked by conspicuous signs identifying those
areas. (Ord. 278, 9-16-2002)
6-12-11: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   (A)   In Residential Areas:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, create or maintain any
unreasonably loud, disturbing and unnecessary noise within the city. Noise of
such character, intensity or duration as to be detrimental to the life, health,
comfort or repose of an individual is prohibited.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to play any radio, phonograph or any musical
instrument or operate a sound amplifying device within the city in such a
manner or with such volume, especially during the hours between ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., as to annoy or disturb the quiet,
comfort or repose of persons in any dwelling, hotel or other type of residence,
except as more specifically set forth herein.
   (B)   In Nonresidential Areas:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any commercial or industrial user, or any
person in a commercial or industrial area, to create noises which when measured
in any residential district exceeds sixty five (65) decibels during the daytime
and twenty five (25) decibels during the evening or at night.
   (C)   In Any Area:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person in any area of the city to
create a continuous noise which can be heard without the aid of amplification
devices three (3) city blocks or more away from the location where the noise is
being created. (Ord. 278, 9-16-2002)
6-12-12: PENALTY:
Any violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor punishable in accordance
with the general misdemeanor statutes of the state of Idaho, and any person
convicted of such an offense shall be punished by a fine not to exceed five
hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment in jail not to exceed six (6)
months, or both imprisonment and fine. (Ord. 278, 9-16-2002)
TITLE VII
FIRE REGULATIONS
***** CHAPTER 1
FIRE PREVENTION CODE *****
(Rep. by Ord. 114, 5-3-1976)
***** CHAPTER 2
FIREWORKS *****
(Rep. by Ord. 171, 6-2-1986)
***** CHAPTER 3
EXPLOSIVES *****
SECTION:
7-3-1: Explosives Prohibited
7-3-2: Exception Permitted
7-3-1: EXPLOSIVES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to make, keep or transport any gunpowder,
nitroglycerin or other highly explosive substance within the limits of the
City.
7-3-2: EXCEPTION PERMITTED:
A vehicle carrying explosives may be permitted on the streets of the City only
if a special written permit has first been obtained from the Chief of Police;
such permit shall specify the exact route to be used by said vehicle and may
permit the vehicle to be parked at a certain specified place for a certain
specified amount of time. Each such permit shall be valid only for the one (1)
specified use.
***** CHAPTER 4
FIRE LIMITS *****
SECTION:
7-4-1: Fire Limits Established
7-4-1: FIRE LIMITS ESTABLISHED:
The fire limits in the City of New Plymouth shall be as follows:
Commencing at the northwest corner of lot 22 block 16, running thence south to
the north side of West Park Avenue, thence east to a point on north side of
East Park Avenue which is due south of the west side of Holly Avenue, thence
north to the northeast corner of lot 22, block 15, thence west to the point of
beginning.
Nothing shall be placed within said fire limits that endangers public welfare
in regard to fire unless by consent of the City Council, and all buildings
hereafter erected within said fire limits shall be of concrete, brick or some
other fire-proof material.
***** CHAPTER 5
OPEN BURNING *****
SECTION:
7-5-1: Purpose
7-5-2: Definition
7-5-3: Open Burning Prohibited
7-5-4: Exemptions
7-5-5: Requirements For Burning
7-5-6: Prohibited Burning
7-5-7: Enforcement, Penalties And Costs
7-5-8: Fire Code Applicable
7-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose and intent of this chapter is to provide for the health and safety
of the citizens of the City of New Plymouth, as well as to protect property
within the City by preventing dangerous fires pursuant to the authority granted
under Idaho law. (Ord. 96, 1-11-1971; amd. Ord. 437, 6-2-2026)
7-5-2: DEFINITION:
ATTENDED: As used in this chapter, "attended" means actively supervised, and
responsibly ignited with proper fire management precautions. All flames,
embers, coals, sparks, or hot spots shall be completely and fully extinguished
such that they cannot reignite.
OPEN BURNING: The burning of any materials wherein the products of combustion
are emitted into the ambient air without passing through a stack, smokestack,
chimney or spark arrester from an enclosed chamber.
(Ord. 96, 1-11-1971; amd. Ord. 437, 6-2-2026)
7-5-3: OPEN BURNING PROHIBITED:
Open burning, and fireworks, as defined by I.C. § 39-2602, and any special
fireworks (e.g., "bottle rockets"), as defined by I.C. § 39-2602, shall be
prohibited in the City from July 1 through October 1 or as determined by
resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 437, 6-2-2026)
7-5-4: EXEMPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to open burning that is:
   (A)   Authorized for agricultural purposes by the Idaho Department of
Agriculture.
   (B)   Authorized pursuant to a permit or license issued by any other local,
State or federal governmental agency of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   Conducted by any employee, contractor, or agent of any local, State or
federal governmental agency in the course of performance of their official
duties or employment.
   (D)   Authorized by and in compliance with federal regulations on federal
land.
   (E)   Recreational fires, which shall include a defined area, container or
structure designated for the burning of solid fuel, natural gas or propane. The
fire must be contained within a non-combustible barrier consisting of stone,
brick, concrete, metal or similar non-combustible material in such a manner to
prevent the escape of combustible materials and which shall be attended as
defined in this chapter.
   (F)   Cooking fires which shall include the burning of conventional fuel
materials such as charcoal, natural or propane gas, or wood pellets, to cook
food in a receptacle such as a barbeque grill, or barbeque pit which was
originally designed or manufactured for such a purpose.
   (G)   Residential burning in, including the use of burn barrels, in enclosed
receptacles with appropriate spark arrestors or screen. Appropriate spark
arrestors shall be constructed of iron, heavy wire mesh or other non-
combustible material with openings not larger than one-half inch (1/2"). Burn
barrels shall not be located less than twenty feet (20') from any structure or
other combustible material.
   (H)   Commercial fireworks as permitted by I.C. § 39-2605 or in-season
fireworks as permitted by I.C. § 39-2606, or as otherwise permitted by law. All
other uses are prohibited. (Ord. 437, 6-2-2026)
7-5-5: REQUIREMENTS FOR BURNING:
   (A)   Except when open burning is prohibited as provided in NPCC § 7-5-3,
burning hours shall be from eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00)
P.M. during the months of October through March and from eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M. to eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. during the months of April through September.
   (B)   Notification of the city clerk, fire district, or Payette County
sheriff's office prior to burning is required and shall include the name and
address of the person(s) responsible for the burning and the type of material
to be burned.
   (C)   No person shall burn on or in any public street, alley, road or other
public ground without prior approval from the fire chief or acting fire chief.
   (D)   All open burning shall be constantly attended by a competent person
until such fire is extinguished. This person shall have a garden hose connected
to the water supply or other fire extinguishing equipment readily available for
use.
   (E)   The chief of the fire district or his designated assistant may
prohibit any or all open burning when atmospheric conditions or local
circumstances make such fires hazardous or offensive to occupants of the
surrounding area.
(Ord. 195, 4-2-1990; Ord. 212, 10-18-1993; Ord. 437, 6-2-2026)
7-5-6: PROHIBITED BURNING:
The following shall be prohibited from burning at all times:
   (A)   Plastics.
   (B)   Dead animals or animal waste.
   (C)   Materials from vehicles such as junk motor vehicles or parts, tires,
and other rubber material.
   (D)   Construction material such as asphaltic materials, tar and petroleum
materials, paints, treated wood, and insulated wire.
   (E)   Trade waste, including any waste generated by construction,
commercial, or industrial activity.
(Ord. 96, 1-11-1971; Ord. 437, 6-2-2026)
7-5-7: ENFORCEMENT, PENALTIES AND COSTS:
   (A)   No Limitations: Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit
any expense, penalty, or liability assessed by any other local, State or
federal governmental agency.
   (B)   Enforcement: The provisions of this chapter may be enforced by the
Payette County Sheriff and/or any peace officer of the State of Idaho
authorized by the Sheriff. In addition, the Sheriff and/or any peace officer of
the State of Idaho authorized by the Sheriff is authorized to extinguish or
cause to be extinguished any open fire ignited or maintained in violation of
this chapter.
   (C)   Operation of Other Laws Not Affected: Nothing in this chapter or any
permit issued by a local, State or federal government agency shall exempt any
person from the operation of or compliance with any other State, federal or
local law, regulation or ordinance.
   (D)   No Liability: The City of New Plymouth, its officials, employees and
agents shall not be liable for any claim or cause, regardless of the nature
thereof, arising directly or indirectly from the granting or denial of any
permit under this chapter or State or federal law, or performance of any
official duty hereunder.
   (E)   Penalty: A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
an infraction upon a first violation, punishable by a fine as set forth for
"other infractions" in the Idaho Infraction Rule 9 (Idaho Infraction Penalty
Schedule) and shall be a misdemeanor upon a subsequent conviction within five
(5) years. Provided, however, a violation of this chapter where property damage
to a third party occurs shall be a misdemeanor. A misdemeanor shall be
punishable by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding six (6) months or by
a fine not exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000), or by both. (Ord. 96, 1-11-
1971; Ord. 437, 6-2-2026)
7-5-8: FIRE CODE APPLICABLE:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as repealing or amending in any way
any safety provisions of the fire code heretofore adopted by the city. All of
the safety requirements therein prescribed for outdoor burning, bonfires or
rubbish fires, shall be required of all persons under the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 195, 4-2-1990; amd. Ord. 332, 2-7-2011, eff. retroactive to 1-1-
2011)
TITLE VIII
HEALTH AND SANITATION
***** CHAPTER 1
EATING AND DRINKING ESTABLISHMENTS *****
SECTION:
8-1-1: Adoption of US Public Health Service Ordinance
8-1-1: ADOPTION OF U.S. PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE ORDINANCE:
The inspection, grading, regrading and placarding of eating an drinking
establishments within the Municipality or its police jurisdiction, the issuing,
suspension and revocation of permits for the operation of such establishments,
the sale of adulterated, misbranded or unwholesome food and drink, the
enforcement of this Chapter shall be regulated in accordance with the terms of
the unabridged form of the 1943 Edition of the U.S. Public Health Service
Ordinance Regulating Eating and Drinking Establishments, three (3) certified
copies of which shall be on file in the office of the Clerk; provided however,
that in Section 2 of said U.S. Public Health Service Ordinance, itinerant
restaurants shall be required to secure a permit.
Provided further, that when any restaurant fails to qualify for any of the
grades specified in the U.S. Public Health Service Ordinance the Health Officer
or other designated official is authorized to suspend the permit or in lieu
thereof to degrade the restaurant and permit its operation during a temporary
period not exceeding thirty (30) days.
***** CHAPTER 2
MILK *****
SECTION:
8-2-1: Adoption Public Health Service Milk Code
8-2-2: Permits
8-2-1: ADOPTION PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICE MILK CODE:
The production and handling of milk and milk products sold for ultimate
consumption within the Municipality or its jurisdiction, all inspections, the
issuing and revoking of permits and the serving of milk to the public shall be
regulated by the adoption of the U.S. Public Health Service Milk Code,
published by the U.S. Department of Health, Education and Welfare (1953), three
(3) copies of which are now on file in the office of the Clerk and said Code is
hereby adopted and incorporated as if fully set out at length herein.
8-2-2: PERMITS:
Under Section 3 of the above adopted Code permits issued shall be in the sum of
twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per year, payable in advance.
***** CHAPTER 3
GARBAGE REMOVAL SYSTEM *****
SECTION:
8-3-1: Granting Of An Exclusive Franchise Of Authority
8-3-2: Prohibition Against Other Persons Engaging In The Hauling Of Solid Waste
8-3-3: Duration
8-3-4: Service For Residential And Commercial Customers
8-3-5: Franchise Fee
8-3-6: Examination Of Records
8-3-7: Limitation Of Number Of Carts
8-3-8: Point Of Pick Up
8-3-9: Minimum Fees
8-3-10: Fees For Customers
8-3-11: Recycling
8-3-12: Availability Of Grantee
8-3-13: Complaints
8-3-14: Responsibility Of Grantee
8-3-15: Prohibition Against Spillage
8-3-16: Burning Or Smoking Materials
8-3-17: Excluded Waste
8-3-18: Construction Or Bulk Waste
8-3-19: Maintenance Of Carts
8-3-20: Annexation
8-3-21: Apartment Complexes
8-3-22: Responsibility Of Waste Generator
8-3-23: Ingress And Egress
8-3-24: Insurance
8-3-25: Hold Harmless
8-3-26: Cancellation In The Event Of Default
8-3-27: Compulsory Use Of The System
8-3-28: Independent Contractor
8-3-29: Change Of Ownership
8-3-30: Binding Effect
8-3-31: Cost Of Publication And Recodification
8-3-1: GRANTING OF AN EXCLUSIVE FRANCHISE OF AUTHORITY:
There is hereby granted and authorized by the city of New Plymouth, Idaho
(hereinafter referred to as “city”), to Hardin Sanitation, Inc., an Idaho
corporation, whose principal place of business is Payette, Idaho (hereinafter
referred to as “grantee”), the exclusive right and privilege and authority to
operate and maintain an exclusive franchise solid waste collection and transfer
system and any services that may be incident thereto, within the city limits of
the city of New Plymouth, Idaho, thereby using the streets of the city for the
conduct of their business (hereinafter referred to as “franchise”). Such grant
of franchise shall include the exclusive right to place garbage receptacles,
carts, dumpsters, or other containers to pick up or collect garbage, refuse or
solid waste within appropriate portions of the right of way. This grant of
franchise shall also include the exclusive right to solicit for business to
haul, remove or recycle any and all garbage, solid waste or recyclable
material. (Ord. 399, 12-3-2019)
8-3-2: PROHIBITION AGAINST OTHER PERSONS ENGAGING IN THE HAULING OF SOLID
WASTE:
No person, firm, company, employee, or other entity, other than the grantee,
shall enter the city of New Plymouth and engage in, or attempt to engage in,
the business of solid waste collection, hauling or transfer of solid waste,
removal of garbage, or removal of solid waste from the residents or businesses
of the city. No person, firm, company, employee, or other entity other than the
grantee, shall solicit, offer to haul, enter into any contract to engage in the
business of solid waste collection, hauling or transfer of solid waste, removal
of garbage, removal of solid waste from the residents or businesses of the
city. No person, firm, company, employee, or other entity other than the
grantee, shall place garbage receptacles, dumpsters, garbage carts or other
containers to pick up or collect garbage, refuse or solid waste. No person,
firm, company, employee, or other entity other than the grantee, shall solicit
for business to haul, transfer, remove or recycle any garbage, solid waste or
recyclable materials. Such prohibitions shall take effect upon the first
publication of this ordinance in the city's official newspaper. (Ord. 399, 12-
3-2019)
8-3-3: DURATION:
This franchise and all rights and privileges and authority hereby granted shall
take effect immediately upon passage and publication as required by law. This
franchise shall remain in full force and effect until September 30, 2029. And
provided further that this franchise may be extended for an additional two
five-year periods by written agreement of Hardin Sanitation and the City
resulting in a potential expiration date of September 30, 2039. (Ord. 399, 12-
3-2019)
8-3-4: SERVICE FOR RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL CUSTOMERS:
Grantee shall provide weekly pick up service in residential areas and, where
required, shall provide daily service during weekdays to commercial areas
within the city. Grantee shall not deposit solid waste except in solid waste
acceptance or disposal facilities approved by the state of Idaho or its
political subdivisions in accordance with all applicable federal, state, and
local laws, ordinances, and regulations. Grantee shall not manage or dispose of
any part of the waste stream collected pursuant to this franchise within the
city or in any manner which results in violation of local, state, or federal
laws. (Ord. 399, 12-3-2019)
8-3-5: FRANCHISE FEE:
City shall receive ten percent (10%) of the collected gross receipts from
residential billings as a franchise fee. The city shall do the billing and
shall remit ninety percent (90%) of the proceeds to the franchisee.
The franchise fee shall not be assessed against any rental income generated
from residential or commercial carts or containers for which the city does not
bill. Payment of the ten percent (10%) fee shall extend to the grantee within
the city limits. The grantee shall provide a list of its accounts as of the
effective date hereof to ensure proper payment. (Ord. 399, 12-3-2019)
8-3-6: EXAMINATION OF RECORDS:
A designee of the city shall have the right to examine records, including
computer records, maintained by grantee. The term “record” shall include, but
is not limited to, all customers or accounts of grantee within the city limits
of New Plymouth. City shall be allowed access at all reasonable times to
inspect and copy at reasonable cost all business records related to grantee's
collection, transportation or disposal of solid waste to the extent necessary
to ensure compliance with this franchise. (Ord. 399, 12-3-2019)
8-3-7: LIMITATION OF NUMBER OF CARTS:
Residential users shall be allowed to use one (1) 95-gallon cart per dwelling.
Additional carts shall be assessed at a rate established by resolution of the
City Council. (Ord. 399, 12-3-2019)
8-3-8: POINT OF PICK UP:
Carts for pick up shall be placed at the edge of the street or alley by the
owner or resident where grantee shall be required to pick up the same. In the
event that a cart or refuse disposal device which is to be picked up and
emptied by grantee is not at curbside on the day set for refuse collection,
grantee shall not be required to pick up the same. Garbage or refuse shall not
be placed upon the ground in sacks, garbage bags, boxes or other containers,
which containers are not capable of keeping animals from gaining access to the
garbage. (Ord. 399, 12-3-2019)
8-3-9: MINIMUM FEES:
The fee charged for a cart shall be considered a minimum fee. In the event that
a resident chooses to use more than one cart, the grantee shall have the right
to dump the excess and make arrangements with the residential user to charge an
additional fee. (Ord. 399, 12-3-2019)
8-3-10: FEES FOR CUSTOMERS:
Fees for residential and commercial customers shall be set by resolution and
are hereby established at the rate in effect at the time of adoption hereof.
Any subsequent increase in rates may be done by resolution and shall be subject
to city approval. (Ord. 399, 12-3-2019)
8-3-11: RECYCLING:
Grantee shall have the exclusive right for curbside recycling. No person or
organization shall salvage or recycle from any commercial container or
residential container, the user of which is a customer of grantee without the
permission of grantee. Businesses, which are engaged in recycling at the time
of the enactment hereof, are exempt from this section. (Ord. 399, 12-3-2019)
8-3-12: AVAILABILITY OF GRANTEE:
Grantee shall be available to the public and shall have an office and telephone
open from nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M. Monday through
Friday, holidays excepted. Grantee's business name and telephone number shall
be printed or painted in legible characters on both sides of all vehicles used
to transport solid waste in New Plymouth. Grantee's business name and telephone
number shall be printed by use of paint or decal in legible characters on the
front of all commercial containers used by grantee to store and collect solid
waste in the city. (Ord. 399, 12-3-2019)
8-3-13: COMPLAINTS:
Grantee shall respond and attempt to rectify any complaints about grantee's
service. Collection crews shall take reasonable care to protect the property of
customers being served. Any damage or spillage of materials, occurring as a
result of the fault of grantee, its employees or agents, shall be grantee's
responsibility. Grantee shall maintain a record of complaints and the
resolution thereof. (Ord. 399, 12-3-2019)
8-3-14: RESPONSIBILITY OF GRANTEE:
Grantee shall be responsibly to ensure that its vehicles are watertight,
readily emptied, cleaned with sufficient frequency to prevent insect breeding
or odors or other nuisances. The vehicles shall be maintained in good repair
and in a safe condition and all waste must be secured to the vehicle or
container and enclosed or covered with secured tarpaulins to prevent leakage,
spillage, dust, or litter. Such enclosures and tarpaulins must remain in place
until arrival at the designated unloading or uncovering areas. Grantee shall
not cause solid waste, except recyclables, to remain or to be stored in any
collection or haulage vehicle. In case of inclement weather, act of God, or
emergency such as equipment breakdown or accident, no solid waste shall be
allowed to remain or to be stored in any collection or haulage vehicle-in
excess of twenty-four (24) hours. If an emergency arises or inclement weather
occurs, grantee is responsible for having the material removed to its intended
destination in a timely manner. All vehicles operated by grantee shall comply
with all state and federal safety standards while operating within the city.
(Ord. 399, 12-3-2019)
8-3-15: PROHIBITION AGAINST SPILLAGE:
Grantee shall not cause a vehicle to be used for the collection or haulage of
solid waste if the design of the vehicle is such that any material will be
allowed to spill onto any roadway. Grantee shall not cause a vehicle used for
hauling solid waste to be used beyond its design capabilities. (Ord. 399, 12-3-
2019)
8-3-16: BURNING OR SMOKING MATERIALS:
Grantee shall not collect, transfer, transport or deliver to any disposal
facility any material that is smoking or showing evidence of smoking,
smoldering, or burning. In the event grantee must dump materials in transit in
an emergency due to smoking, smoldering, or burning, grantee shall be
responsible for immediately notifying the police and fire departments having
jurisdiction and shall be responsible for cleanup of materials dumped during
the emergency. Cleanup shall be accomplished promptly, but in no event later
than twenty-four (24) hours after dumping and the dumped material shall then be
properly disposed of. (Ord. 399, 12-3-2019)
8-3-17: EXCLUDED WASTE:
   A.   “Excluded Waste” means and includes bulky waste, dirt or earth debris
from construction or lawn renovation, rocks, stones, automobile bodies and
parts, dead animals or animal carcasses, stable matter, hazardous or toxic
waste, explosive or corrosive materials and wastewater (sewage).
   B.   Notwithstanding any other term contained herein, Grantee shall have no
obligation to collect any solid waste which is, or which Grantee reasonably
believes to be, Excluded Waste. If Grantee finds what reasonably appears to be
discarded Excluded Waste, Grantee shall notify the customer/business/generator,
if such can be determined, that Grantee may not lawfully collect such Excluded
Waste and leave a tag specifying the nearest location available for appropriate
disposal. Title to and liability for any Excluded Waste shall remain with the
resident/generator of such Excluded Waste, even if Grantee inadvertently
collects and disposes of such Excluded Waste. (Ord. 399, 12-3-2019)
8-3-18: CONSTRUCTION OR BULK WASTE:
Grantee shall not be required to collect waste building materials from
construction, alteration, repair, moving or demolition of buildings or
structures, nor bulky waste, such as but not limited to tree stumps, tree
trunks, large limbs or logs, automobiles or trucks bodies, tires, couches,
refrigerators, bulky appliances, carpets, water heaters, industrial or
agricultural refuse, hot ashes, or dead animals. When such service is
requested, rate(s) will be negotiated with the customer prior to loading at
Grantee's option. (Ord. 399, 12-3-2019)
8-3-19: MAINTENANCE OF CARTS:
The grantee shall provide carts to residential customers and replace those
carts as may be necessary. Those carts shall have lids to protect against
spillage or access by animals. Containers that become a health hazard may be
disposed of by the grantee after notice to the customer. While in use,
customers shall keep the carts that they are using clean. (Ord. 399, 12-3-2019)
8-3-20: ANNEXATION:
The franchise shall apply to any real property annexed into the city after the
first publication of this ordinance subject to existing contracts for solid
waste hauling in effect at the time of annexation. (Ord. 399, 12-3-2019)
8-3-21: APARTMENT COMPLEXES:
All apartment complexes with three (3) or more units shall have a commercial
container. In the event an apartment complex has separate connections, the
franchisee may place individual containers for each unit. (Ord. 399, 12-3-2019)
8-3-22: RESPONSIBILITY OF WASTE GENERATOR:
A residential or commercial generator of solid waste shall bear the
responsibility for maintaining carts and containers in a clean and sanitary
manner and shall be responsible for maintaining the area around such carts and
containers in a clean, sanitary and odor free condition. In the event the
producer/generator of waste refuses or neglects to maintain such carts or keep
such carts or containers in a clean or sanitary condition, grantee shall notify
the city of the condition. The city shall then notify the generator. The
generator of waste shall clean the carts, containers or clean the area within
ten (10) days. If the area, carts, or containers are not cleaned within ten
(10) days, grantee may assume responsibility for cleanup and present its costs
and expenses incurred in the cleanup to the city clerk. The city clerk shall
then bill grantee’s costs and expenses to the generator. Generator shall be
responsible for paying the city for any cleanup that is necessitated as a
result of that generator's not complying with the notice from the city. (Ord.
399, 12-3-2019)
8-3-23: INGRESS AND EGRESS:
This franchise grants to grantee the right of ingress and egress, to cross all
public streets, alleys, and rights of way in the city. It shall be unlawful for
any person to deny reasonable access to grantee to collect solid waste or
recyclables from a commercial premises or residential unit or to fail to place
solid waste where it can be accessed from an appropriate public right of way.
Grantee shall follow the traveled portion of streets, alleys, and roadways, or
the regular walks for pedestrians while on private property, and shall take
care in loading of such waste so that the material to be collected is not left
upon the private property or the streets, alleys, or roadways. Grantee shall
return the containers with all properly prepared and legal contents removed and
replace the lid thereon. Grantee shall not place any obstructions to traffic in
any street or alley while carrying out this franchise. Collections shall be
made on the streets and rights of way of the city in a manner of least delay
and inconvenience to the public. Grantee will use backways and alleys wherever
possible. (Ord. 399, 12-3-2019)
8-3-24: INSURANCE:
Grantee shall obtain and submit certificates of insurance issued by insurers
duly licensed by the state of Idaho providing the following coverage: a)
general liability coverage in the amount of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00)
for bodily injury and/or property damage per occurrence, with a five million
dollar ($5,000,000.00) aggregate; and b) automobile liability coverage in the
amounts of five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) bodily injury and/or property
damage. The city of New Plymouth shall be named as an additional insured and
shall be defended and indemnified regarding all activities carried out pursuant
to the franchise. All policies and certificates shall be endorsed to require
that the insurer provide at least a sixty (60) day written notice to city prior
to the effective date of policy cancellation, nonrenewal, or material adverse
change in coverage terms. Grantee shall maintain insurance in compliance with
this section throughout the term of the franchise and provide evidence of such
coverage to city upon request. (Ord. 399, 12-3-2019)
8-3-25: HOLD HARMLESS:
Grantee shall take all reasonable precautions necessary to protect the public
from injury and shall defend, indemnify, and save the city harmless from any
liability, claims, damages, costs, judgments, expenses, and claims of damages
that may arise by reason of any tort claim for bodily or personal injury,
disease, death, or damage to property resulting directly or indirectly from an
act or omission of grantee, its agents, employees, or independent contractors.
(Ord. 399, 12-3-2019)
8-3-26: CANCELLATION IN THE EVENT OF DEFAULT:
Either the city or the grantee may cancel or terminate the franchise if the
other is in substantial and material violation or default of the franchise and
the defaulting party fails to cure the default within ninety (90) days of any
notification of violation. In the event of an emergency a default shall be
remedied forthwith. Notification shall be in writing, sent by registered mail,
to city at P.O. Box 158, New Plymouth, ID 83655, and grantee at 141 N. 20th
Street, Payette, ID 83661. (Ord. 399, 12-3-2019)
8-3-27: COMPULSORY USE OF THE SYSTEM:
Every owner and occupant of premises within the prescribed limits of the city
must use the refuse collection and disposal system herein provided and shall
deposit or cause to be deposited in accordance with this chapter all rubbish
and garbage that is of such nature that it is perishable, or may decompose or
may be scattered by wind or otherwise, which is accumulated on such premises.
(Ord. 399, 12-3-2019)
8-3-28: INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR:
Both the city and the grantee acknowledge that grantee is an independent
contractor and neither party shall make any contrary representations to any
other person or entity. (Ord. 399, 12-3-2019)
8-3-29: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP:
At least ninety (90) days prior to the effective date of a change of ownership,
grantee shall notify the city in writing. In the event the present owners of
grantee sell Hardin Sanitation, Inc., the city shall have the right to examine
the financial and business background of any proposed transferee of the
grantee. For good cause, the city shall have the right to deny any proposed
franchise. transfer. Grantee shall also inform the city of any change in the
location of its office(s), or in the number of vehicles which it operates
within the city. (Ord. 399, 12-3-2019)
8-3-30: BINDING EFFECT:
This franchise shall be binding upon the heirs, assigns and successors of the
grantee. All terms of this chapter shall be binding upon any service provider
so long as that provider engages in solid waste disposal within the city
limits. (Ord. 399, 12-3-2019)
8-3-31: COST OF PUBLICATION AND RECODIFICATION:
The grantee shall bear the cost of publication and recodification of this
franchise ordinance as such publication and recodification are required by the
laws of the state of Idaho. (Ord. 399, 12-3-2019)
***** CHAPTER 4
SEWER REGULATIONS *****
SECTION:
8-4-1: Short Title
8-4-2: Definitions
8-4-2-1: Abbreviations
8-4-3: Use Of The Public Sewers Required; Connections From Outside City
Prohibited
8-4-4: Building Sewers And Connections
8-4-5: Use Restrictions
8-4-5-1: General Prohibitions
8-4-5-2: Specific Prohibitions
8-4-5-3: Local Limits
8-4-6: Pretreatment Facilities
8-4-7: Monitoring Facilities
8-4-8: Sampling And Analytical Requirements
8-4-9: Entry Powers
8-4-10: Administrative Enforcement Remedies
8-4-11: Judicial Enforcement Remedies
8-4-11-1: Performance Bonds
8-4-11-2: Civil Penalties
8-4-11-3: Criminal Prosecution
8-4-11-4: Remedies Non-Exclusive
8-4-12: Service Rates And Charges
8-4-12-1: Rates Set By Resolution
8-4-12-2: Industrial Users
8-4-12-3: Payment Procedure
8-4-12-4: Disposition Of Moneys
8-4-13: Private Construction And Extensions
8-4-13-1: Permit Required; Application Requirements
8-4-13-2: Certificate Of Completion
8-4-13-3: Affidavit Of Owners Participating In Cost
8-4-13-4: Drainage Requirements
8-4-13-5: No Service For Owners Not Participating In Cost
8-4-13-6: Connection; Application Required; Affidavit Of Payment Required
8-4-13-7: Private Construction Previously Completed
8-4-13-8: Extension; Affidavit Of Payment Not Required
8-4-13-9: Interceptors, Mains Or Laterals; Applicability To City
8-4-14: Review Of Provisions
8-4-15: Annual Notice To Users
8-4-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the SEWER REGULATION ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF
NEW PLYMOUTH, IDAHO. (Ord. 356, 2-6-2017)
8-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms in
this chapter shall be as follows:
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures
for five (5) days at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C), usually expressed as a
concentration [milligrams per liter (mg/L)].
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewers, beginning five
feet (5') (1.5 m) outside the inner face of the building walls.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
CITY: The City of New Plymouth, the New Plymouth City Council, an official of
the City of New Plymouth, the New Plymouth sewer system, the New Plymouth
Publics Works Superintendent or their authorized designee, representative, or
agent, or POTW.
COLOR: The optical density at the visual wave length of maximum absorption,
relative to distilled water. One hundred percent (100%) transmittance is
equivalent to zero (0.0) optical density.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
DOMESTIC USER (RESIDENTIAL USER): Any person who contributes, causes, or allows
the contribution of wastewater into the POTW that is of a similar volume and/or
chemical make-up to that of a residential dwelling unit.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA): The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
or, where appropriate, the Director of the Region 10 Office of Water, or other
duly authorized official of said agency.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
INDUSTRIAL WASTE WATER MONITORING STATION: The monitoring station required by
the City to determine the contribution of the industry to the public sewer
system. Monitoring equipment shall include composite refrigerated sampler,
recording pH meter and recording flow meter. The City shall provide plans and
specifications for the construction of the station, cost of the construction of
the station shall be at the industry's expense. Maintenance and upkeep of the
station shall be at the industry's expense.
INTERFERENCE: A discharge which alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, either: a) inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its
treatment processes or operations; b) inhibits or disrupts its sludge
processes, use or disposal; or c) is a cause of a violation of the City's NPDES
permit or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with
any of the following statutory/regulatory provisions or permits issued
thereunder (or more stringent State or local regulations): section 405 of the
Clean Water Act; the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA), including title II
commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA); any
State regulations contained in any State sludge management plan prepared
pursuant to subtitle D of the SWDA; the Clean Air Act; the Toxic Substances
Control Act.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface or ground water.
PASS THROUGH: A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United States
in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge
or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement
of the City's NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration
of a violation).
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity; or their legal representatives, agents, or
assigns. This definition includes all Federal, State, or local governmental
entities.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per
liter of solution.
POLLUTANT: Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes, biological
materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock,
sand, cellar dirt, agricultural and industrial wastes, and the characteristics
of the wastewater [i.e., pH, temperature, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, chemical
oxygen demand (COD), toxicity, or odor].
PRE-TREATMENT INSPECTOR: Any person designated by the City of New Plymouth or
the State of Idaho, Department of Environmental Quality to inspect a sewer
user's sewage pre-treatment facility, or any sewage discharge from any sewer
users facility.
PROPERLY SHREDDED: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of
food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles will be
carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers,
with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 cm) in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer over which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and which is controlled by public authority.
PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW): A "treatment works", as defined by
section 212 of the Act (33 USC 1292) which is owned by the City. This
definition includes any devices or systems used in the collection, storage,
treatment, recycling, and reclamation of sewage or industrial wastes of a
liquid nature and any conveyances which convey wastewater to a treatment plant.
The term also means the City.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer to which storm, surface and ground waters are not
intentionally admitted.
SEWAGE: Human excrement and gray water (household showers, dishwashing
operations, etc.).
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
SEWAGE WORKS: All facilities for collecting, pumping, treatment and disposing
of sewage.
SEWER: Any pipe, conduit ditch, or other device used to collect and transport
sewage from the generating source.
SEWER INSPECTOR: Public Works Superintendent or their authorized deputy, agent
or representative.
SHALL; MAY: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU): (A) A user subject to categorical
pretreatment standards; or
   (B)   A user that:
      1.    Discharges an average of twenty five thousand (25,000) GPD or more
of process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, non- contact cooling,
and boiler blowdown wastewater); or
      2.    Contributes a process wastestream which makes up five percent (5%)
or more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW
treatment plant; or
      3.    Is designated as such by the City on the basis that it has a
reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's operation or for
violating any pretreatment standard or requirement.
   (C)   Upon a finding that a user meeting the criteria in subsection (B) of
this definition has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's
operation or for violating any applicable pretreatment standard or requirement,
the City may at any time, on its own initiative or in response to a petition
received from a user [and in accordance with procedures in 40 CFR 403.8(f)(6)]
determine that such user should not be considered a significant industrial
user.
SLUG LOAD: Any discharge at a flow rate or concentration which could cause a
violation of the discharge standards in section
8-4-5 of this chapter or any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature,
including but not limited to, an accidental spill or a non-customary batch
discharge.
STORM DRAIN (Sometimes Termed STORM SEWER): A sewer which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water.
SUPERINTENDENT: The Superintendent of Sewage Works and/or of Water Pollution
Control of the City or their authorized deputy, agent or representative.
TC: A measurement of the total carbon content of the wastewater.
TOC: A measurement of the total organic carbon content of the wastewater.
TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS: The total suspended matter that floats on the surface
of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or other liquid, and which is
removable by laboratory filtering.
USER OR INDUSTRIAL USER: A source of indirect discharge. The source shall not
include "domestic user" as defined herein.
WASTEWATER: Liquid and water-carried industrial wastes and sewage from
residential dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing
facilities, and institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are
contributed to the POTW.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (Ord. 356, 2-6-2017)
8-4-2-1: ABBREVIATIONS:
ASPP  - Accidental spill prevention plan
BOD   - Biochemical oxygen demand
CFR   - Code of Federal Regulations
COD   - Chemical oxygen demand
EPA   - U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
GPD   - gallons per day
IWA   - Industrial waste acceptance
L     - liter
LEL   - Lower explosive limit
mg    - milligrams
mg/L  - milligrams per liter
NPDES - National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
O&M   - Operation and maintenance
POTW  - Publicly owned treatment works
RCRA  - Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
SIC   - Standard Industrial Classifications
SWDA  - Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 USC 6901, et seq.)
TSS   - Total suspended solids
USC   - United States Code
 
(Ord. 356, 2-6-2017)
8-4-3: USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED; CONNECTIONS FROM OUTSIDE CITY
PROHIBITED:
   (A)   Unlawful Deposits: It is unlawful for any person to place, deposit or
permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property
within the City, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the City, any human
or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   Unlawful Discharges: It is unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet
within the City or in any area under the jurisdiction of the City, any sewage
or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Unlawful Construction: Except as hereinafter provided, it is unlawful
to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other
facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   Required Connections: The owner of all houses, buildings or properties
used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated
within the City and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which
there is now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary or
combined sewer of the City, is required at their expense to install suitable
toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the
proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter within
ninety (90) days after date of official notice to do so, provided that said
public sewer is within two hundred fifty feet (250') of the owner's property
line. The owner shall be obligated to provide reasonable maintenance of said
facilities. If said owner fails, neglects or refuses within said time period to
comply with the connections required by this subsection at such distances,
under such regulations and in accordance with such specifications as may be
prescribed by the City, the whole costs of such connections shall be assessed
and collected against said property in the same manner as other City taxes.
   (E)   Connections From Outside City Prohibited: There shall be no sewer
lines outside the City connected to the City sewer lines. (Ord. 356, 2-6-2017)
8-4-4: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   (A)   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Written Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make
any connections with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the City.
      2.   Classes Of Permits: There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer
permits: for residential and commercial service, and for service to
establishments producing industrial wastes. In either case, the owner or their
agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the City. The
permit application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the City. A permit and
inspection fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a residential or commercial
building sewer permit and two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) for an industrial
building sewer permit shall be paid to the City at the time the application is
filed.
   (B)   Costs Of Installation: All costs and expense incident to the
installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
The owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   (C)   Separate Sewer Lines For Each Building: A separate and independent
building sewer shall be provided for every building, residential and
commercial, except when in the opinion of the Public Works Superintendent it is
advisable to connect two (2) or more buildings with the main sewer line, and
except where one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and
no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building
through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building sewer from
the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as one building sewer. Industrial wastes shall enter the public
sewer at as many points as is required by the industrial facility. Each point
of entry shall have an industrial monitor station at that point.
   (D)   Old Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in connection with new
buildings only when they are found, on examination and test by the City, to
meet all requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   Construction To Comply With Rules And Regulations: The size, slope,
alignment and materials of construction of a building sewer, and the methods to
be used in excavating, placing of pipe, jointing, testing, and backfilling the
trench, shall all conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code
and other applicable rules and regulations and requirements of the City. In the
absence of Code provisions or in amplification thereof, the materials and
procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM and WPCF Manual
of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (F)   Elevation Of Sewer Line: Whenever possible, the building sewer shall
be brought to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all
buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the
public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by
an approved means and discharged to the building sewer.
   (G)   Prohibition Against Connecting Sewer To Drains: No person shall make
connection of roof downspouts, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or
other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or building
drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary
sewer.
   (H)   Connections To Comply With City Regulations: The connection of the
building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the
Building and Plumbing Code and other applicable rules and regulations of the
City, or the procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM and
WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and
watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be
approved by the City before installation.
   (I)   Notification Of Connection: The applicant for the building sewer
permit shall notify the Public Works Superintendent when the building sewer is
ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection shall
be made under the supervision of the Public Works Superintendent or their
representative.
   (J)   Excavations To Be Guarded: All excavations for building sewer
installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to
protect the public from hazards. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public
property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner
satisfactory to the City. Excavations shall be made in such a manner as to
impede travel as little as possible and for such time periods as the Public
Works Superintendent may direct. (Ord. 356, 2-6-2017)
8-4-5: USE RESTRICTIONS:
8-4-5-1: GENERAL PROHIBITIONS:
No user shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the POTW any pollutant
or wastewater which causes pass through or interference. These general
prohibitions apply to all users of the POTW whether or not they are subject to
categorical pretreatment standards or any other national, State, or local
pretreatment standards or requirements. (Ord. 356, 2-6-2017)
8-4-5-2: SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS:
Pollutants, substances, or wastewater prohibited by this section shall not be
processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged to the POTW.
No user shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the POTW the following
pollutants, substances, or wastewater:
   (A)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosive hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed- cup flash point of
less than one hundred forty degrees Fahrenheit (140°F) (60°C) using the test
methods specified in 40 CFR 261.21;
   (B)   Wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or more than 9.0 or otherwise
causing corrosive structural damage to the POTW or equipment;
   (C)   Solid or viscous substances in amounts which will cause obstruction of
the flow in the POTW resulting in interference but in no case solids greater
than 0.5 inch in any dimension;
   (D)   Pollutants, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD, etc.),
released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, will cause interference
with the POTW;
   (E)   Wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological activity
in the treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case wastewater
which causes the temperature at the introduction into the treatment plant to
exceed one hundred four degrees Fahrenheit (104°F) (40°C) unless the approval
authority, upon the request of the POTW, approves alternate temperature limits;
   (F)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin, in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
   (G)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
   (H)   Trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points designated by
the City;
   (I)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, solids, or other wastewater
which, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to
create a public nuisance or a hazard to life or health, or to prevent entry
into the sewers for maintenance or repair;
   (J)   Wastewater which imparts color which cannot be removed by the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions, which consequently imparts color to the treatment plant's
effluent, thereby violating the City's NPDES permit. Color (in combination with
turbidity) shall not cause the treatment plant effluent to reduce the depth of
the compensation point for photosynthetic activity by more than ten percent
(10%) from the seasonably established norm for aquatic life;
   (K)   Wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes except as
specifically approved by the Public Works Superintendent in compliance with
applicable State or Federal regulations;
   (L)   Stormwater, surface water, ground water, artesian well water, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, swimming pool drainage, condensate, deionized
water, and unpolluted wastewater shall be discharged to such sewers as are
specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to a natural
outlet approved by the City. Non-contact cooling water or unpolluted process
waters may be discharged on approval of the City to a storm sewer, combined
sewer or natural outlet;
   (M)   Any sludges, screenings, or other residues from the pretreatment of
industrial wastes or from industrial processes;
   (N)   Medical wastes, except as specifically authorized by the Public Works
Superintendent;
   (O)   Wastewater causing, alone or in conjunction with other sources, the
treatment plant's effluent to fail a toxicity test;
   (P)   Detergents, surface-active agents, or other substances which may cause
excessive foaming in the POTW;
   (Q)   Any liquid, solids, or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are or may be sufficient, either alone or by interaction with other
substances, to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
POTW or to the operation of the POTW. At no time shall two (2) successive
readings on an explosion meter, at the point of discharge into the system (or
at any point in the system), be more than five percent (5%) nor any single
reading over ten percent (10%) of the lower explosive limit (LEL) of the meter;
   (R)   Grease, animal guts or tissues, paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or
fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime,
stone or marble dusts, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags,
spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood, plastics, gas, tar asphalt
residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel or lubricating oil, mud,
or glass grinding or polishing wastes, unless specifically authorized by the
Public Works Superintendent;
   (S)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES and/or
other disposal system permits;
   (T)   Any wastewater, which in the opinion of the Public Works
Superintendent can cause harm either to the sewers, sewage treatment process,
or equipment; have an adverse effect on the receiving stream; or can otherwise
endanger life, limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance, unless allowed
under special agreement by the Public Works Superintendent (except that no
special waiver shall be given from categorical pretreatment standards);
   (U)   Any hazardous wastes as defined in rules published by the State or in
40 CFR part 261;
   (V)   Persistent pesticides and/or pesticides regulated by the Federal
Insecticide Fungicide Rodenticide Act (FIFRA);
   (W)   Sewage sludge, except in accordance with the City's NPDES permit,
providing that it specifically allows the discharge to surface waters of sewage
sludge pollutants. (Ord. 356, 2-6-2017)
8-4-5-3: LOCAL LIMITS:
The City shall from time to time establish quantitative or other limitations
where necessary to protect against pass through and interference and to provide
for protection of the POTW, worker safety, public health, or environment. No
user shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the POTW the following
pollutants, substances, or wastewater:
   (A)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation and
operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/4)
horsepower or greater shall be subject to the review and approval of the City;
   (B)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid iron pickling wastes or
concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not;
   (C)   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the City for such materials;
   (D)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the City as necessary, after treatment of the composite sewage,
to meet the requirements of the State, Federal or other public agencies of
jurisdiction of such discharge to the receiving waters;
   (E)   Materials which exert or cause unusual concentrations of inert
suspended solids, such as, but not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries
and lime residues or of dissolved solids, such as but not limited to sodium
chloride and sodium sulfate. (Ord. 356, 2-6-2017)
8-4-6: PRETREATMENT FACILITIES:
   (A)   Users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to
comply with this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements set out in this chapter within the time
limitations specified by the EPA, the State, or the Public Works
Superintendent, whichever is more stringent. Any facilities required to
pretreat wastewater to a level acceptable to the City shall be provided,
operated, and maintained at the user's expense. Detailed plans showing the
pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the City
for review and shall be acceptable to the City before construction of the
facility. The review of such plans and operating procedures will in no way
relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary
to produce an acceptable discharge to the City under the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Whenever deemed necessary, the Public Works Superintendent may require
users to restrict their discharge during peak flow periods, designate that
certain wastewater be discharged only into specific sewers, relocate and/or
consolidate points of discharge, separate sewage wastestreams from industrial
wastestreams, and such other conditions as may be necessary to protect the POTW
and determine the user's compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Public Works Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper
handling of wastewater containing excessive amounts of grease and oil, or sand,
except that such interceptors shall not be required for residential users. All
interception units shall be of type and capacity approved by the Public Works
Superintendent and shall be so located to be easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. Such interceptors shall be inspected, cleaned, and repaired
regularly, as needed, by the user at its expense. The introduction of chemical,
bacterial, enzyme, or any other additive into an interceptor, directly or
indirectly, that causes interference with the normal operation of the unit or
causes pass through of prohibited substances is prohibited. Interceptor
maintenance and cleaning records shall be maintained by the user and made
available to pretreatment inspectors for review upon request. Users with the
potential to discharge flammable substances may be required to install and
maintain an approved combustible gas detection meter. (Ord. 356, 2-6-2017)
8-4-7: MONITORING FACILITIES:
   (A)   Each user shall provide and operate at its own expense a monitoring
facility to allow inspection, sampling, and flow measurements of each sewer
discharge to the City. Each monitoring facility shall be situated on the user's
premises, except, where such a location would be impractical or cause undue
hardship on the user, the City may concur with the facility being constructed
in the public street or sidewalk area, providing that the facility is located
so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked vehicles. The Public
Works Superintendent, whenever applicable, may require the construction and
maintenance of sampling facilities at other locations (for example, at the end
of a manufacturing line or a wastewater treatment system).
   (B)   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling facility to allow
accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The facility,
including the sampling and measuring equipment, shall be maintained at all
times in a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
   (C)   The Public Works Superintendent may require the user to install
monitoring equipment as necessary. All monitoring facilities shall be
constructed and maintained in accordance with all applicable local construction
standards and specifications. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and
quality shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy. (Ord. 356, 2-6-2017)
8-4-8: SAMPLING AND ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Grab Samples: Grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide, total
phenols, oil and grease, sulfide, and volatile organic compounds. For all other
pollutants, 24-hour composite samples must be obtained through flow-
proportional composite sampling techniques, unless time-proportional composite
sampling or grab sampling is authorized by the POTW, the samples must be
representative of the discharge and the decision to allow the alternative
sampling must be documented in the industrial user file for that facility or
facilities. Using protocols (including appropriate preservation) specified in
40 CFR part 136 and appropriate EPA guidance, multiple grab samples collected
during the 24-hour period may be composited prior to the analysis as follows:
for cyanide, total phenols, and sulfides the samples may be composited in the
laboratory. Composite samples for other parameters unaffected by compositing
procedures as documented in approved EPA methodologies may be authorized by the
POTW, as appropriate.
   (B)   Baseline Monitoring: For sampling required in support of baseline
monitoring, a minimum of four (4) grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide,
total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide and volatile organic compounds for
facilities for which historical sampling data do not exist; for facilities for
which historical sampling data are available, the POTW may authorize a lower
minimum. For the reports required by 40 CFR 403.12 (e) and (h), the POTW shall
require the number of grab samples necessary to assess and assure compliance by
industrial users with applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
   (C)   Location For Taking Samples: Samples shall be taken immediately
downstream from pretreatment facilities if such exist, immediately downstream
from the regulated or manufacturing process if no pretreatment exists, or at a
location determined by the City.
   (D)   Sample Results: All sample results shall indicate the time, date and
place of sampling, and methods of analysis and shall certify that the
wastestream sampled is representative of normal work cycles and expected
pollutant discharges from the user.
   (E)   Pollutant Analyses: All pollutant analyses, including sampling
techniques, shall be performed in accordance with the techniques prescribed in
40 CFR part 136. If 40 CFR part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical
techniques for the pollutant in question, sampling and analyses must be
performed in accordance with procedures approved by the EPA.
   (F)   Agreements To Accept Industrial Wastes: No statement contained in this
section shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement
between the City and industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual
strength or character may be accepted by the City for treatment, subject to
payment therefor, by the industrial concern. (Ord. 356, 2-6-2017)
8-4-9: ENTRY POWERS:
The City shall have the right to enter the facilities of any user to ascertain
whether the purpose of this chapter and any wastewater discharge permit or
order issued hereunder is being met and whether the user is complying with all
requirements thereof. Users shall allow the Public Works Superintendent ready
access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling,
records examination and copying, and the performance of any additional duties.
   (A)   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the Public Works Superintendent will be permitted
to enter without delay for the purposes of performing specific
responsibilities.
   (B)   The Public Works Superintendent shall have the right to set up on the
user's property, or require installation of, such devices as are necessary to
conduct sampling and/or metering of the user's operations.
   (C)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the user
at the written or verbal request of the Public Works Superintendent and shall
not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the user.
   (D)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Public Works Superintendent access
to the user's premises shall be a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 356, 2-6-
2017)
8-4-10: ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES:
If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be discharged to the
public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in this chapter, and/or in the judgment of the City
may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment or
receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a
public nuisance, in addition to the penalty schedule outlined in title I,
chapter 3 of this Code, the City may:
   (A)   Reject the wastes;
   (B)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
   (C)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
   (D)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges. (Ord. 356, 2-6-2017)
8-4-11: JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES:
8-4-11-1: PERFORMANCE BONDS:
When the Public Works Superintendent finds that a user has violated (or
continues to violate) any provision of this chapter, a wastewater discharge
permit, or order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Public Works Superintendent may petition the District Court of
the Third Judicial District of the State of Idaho, through the City's Attorney
for the issuance of a temporary or permanent injunction, as appropriate, which
restrains or compels the specific performance of the wastewater discharge
permit, order, or other requirement imposed by this chapter on activities of
the user. The City may also seek such other action as is appropriate for legal
and/or equitable relief, including a requirement for the user to conduct
environmental remediation. A petition for injunctive relief shall not be a bar
against, or a prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user. (Ord.
356, 2-6-2017)
8-4-11-2: CIVIL PENALTIES:
   (A)   A user which has violated or continues to violate any provision of
this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any
other pretreatment standard or requirement shall be liable to the City for a
maximum civil penalty of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation, per
day. In the case of a monthly or other long-term average discharge limit,
penalties shall accrue for each day during the period of the violation.
   (B)   The City may recover reasonable attorneys' fees, court costs, and
other expenses associated with enforcement activities, including sampling and
monitoring expenses, and the cost of any actual damages incurred by the City.
   (C)   In determining the amount of civil liability, the court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration, any
economic benefit gained through the user's violation, corrective actions by the
user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor as justice
requires.
   (D)   Filing a suit for civil penalties shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, taking any other action against a user. (Ord. 356, 2-6-2017)
8-4-11-3: CRIMINAL PROSECUTION:
   (A)   A user which has willfully or negligently violated any provision of
this chapter, a wastewater discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or any
other pretreatment standard or requirement shall, upon conviction, be guilty of
a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) per violation, per day, or imprisonment for not more than one year,
or both.
   (B)   A user which has willfully or negligently introduced any substance
into the POTW which causes personal injury or property damage shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to a penalty of at least
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) and/or be subject to imprisonment for one
year. This penalty shall be in addition to any other cause of action for
personal injury or property damage available under State law.
   (C)   A user which knowingly made any false statements, representations, or
certifications in any application, record, report, plan, or other documentation
filed, or required to be maintained, pursuant to this chapter, wastewater
discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, or who falsified, tampered with,
or knowingly rendered inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under
this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation per day, or imprisonment for not
more than one year, or both.
   (D)   In the event of a second conviction, a user shall be punished by a
fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation per day,
or imprisonment for not more than one year, or both. (Ord. 356, 2-6-2017)
8-4-11-4: REMEDIES NON-EXCLUSIVE:
The provisions of this chapter are not exclusive remedies. The City reserves
the right to take any, all, or any combination of these actions against a non-
compliant user. Enforcement in response to pretreatment violations will
generally be in accordance with the City's enforcement response plan. However,
the City reserves the right to take other action against any user when the
circumstances warrant. Further, the City is empowered to take more than one
enforcement action against any non-compliant user. These actions may be taken
concurrently. (Ord. 356, 2-6-2017)
8-4-12: SERVICE RATES AND CHARGES:
8-4-12-1: RATES SET BY RESOLUTION:
Owners or occupants of all premises now served by the sanitary sewer of the
City and of all premises to be furnished sewer service by the sewage collection
system, except industrial users, shall pay rates established by resolution of
the City Council.
   (A)   Except as provided in section
8-5-2 of this title, as amended, the monthly charge for City sewer service
shall be determined by the amounts of City water delivered to and discharged at
the premises, and shall be collected for each meter service at a rate
established by a resolution of the City Council; however, in the event there is
more than one dwelling unit, connected to a water meter, then the charges shall
be made and collected for each dwelling unit by determining the average
discharge per dwelling unit (flat rate).
   (B)   The City Council is hereby authorized to establish sewer rates and
charges by a written resolution.
   (C)   No minimum monthly charge shall be made for the month or months in
which the City water service for such premises has been discontinued.
   (D)   The rates and charges established by resolution shall be subject to
modification upon application to the Council by the owner or occupant in all
cases where fees so established are unjust or oppressive.
   (E)   Every lot, household, building and property, whether or not connected
to the sewer, shall pay the sewer users charge and surcharge even if the
facility is vacant and not using water. (Ord. 356, 2-6-2017)
8-4-12-2: INDUSTRIAL USERS:
   (A)   Rates For Industrial Users: Monthly sewer service rates for industrial
users shall be set by the maximum percentage of wastewater plant capacity that
is required to service the industry during any one day in a calendar month, if
the resulting fee exceeds the scheduled rate.
   (B)   Determining Maximum Percentage Of Plant Capacity: The maximum
percentage shall be determined using the values from the monitoring station
composite samples, taken daily. These values divided by the values determined
from the influent composite samples taken daily at the wastewater plant and
multiplied by one hundred (100).
   (C)   Determining Maximum Day: The maximum day for each calendar month shall
be determined from the summation of the BOD or TOC, suspended solids and flow
percentage from that day. The day having the largest summation shall be the
maximum day for the calendar month.
   (D)   Determining Cost Of Monthly Sewer Service: The cost for monthly sewer
service shall be based on sum of the following costs:
      1.   The BOD or TOC percentage from the maximum day divided by one
hundred (100) and multiplied by one-third (1/3) of the total actual cost of
operation and maintenance of the wastewater plant for the calendar month;
      2.   The suspended solids percentage from the maximum day divided by one
hundred (100) and multiplied by one-third (1/3) of the total actual cost of
operation and maintenance of the wastewater plant for the calendar month;
      3.   The flow percentage from the maximum day divided by one hundred
(100) and multiplied by one-third (1/3) of the total actual cost of operation
and maintenance of the wastewater plant for the calendar month.
   (E)   Written Contract May Be Required: The City may require the industrial
users to enter into a written contract containing provisions that are set forth
in subsections (A), (B), (C) and (D) of this section prior to providing sewer
service to industrial users. (Ord. 356, 2-6-2017)
8-4-12-3: PAYMENT PROCEDURE:
   (A)   Fees shall be carried on the water bills, wherever applicable, and the
Water Department is authorized and directed to discontinue services to any
premises, where the entire water and sewer service bill is not paid, in the
same manner that service is discontinued for nonpayment of water bills.
   (B)   All fees shall be paid by the person responsible for the same at the
Office of the City Clerk within ten (10) days after receipt of a statement and,
if not paid, the same shall become delinquent. (Ord. 356, 2-6-2017)
8-4-12-4: DISPOSITION OF MONEYS:
All fees and charges provided for in section
8-4-12-1, subsections
8-4-12-2(A) through (E) and section
8-4-12-3 of this chapter shall be deposited into the Water/Sewer Fund of the
City and paid into the Sewer Fund of the City. All charges and expenses for
operation and maintenance of the sewage system and the sewage treatment and
disposal plant, and all payments required to be made, shall be made from the
Sewer Fund of the City. The Council may, from time to time, establish within
the Sewer Fund a reserve for the operation, maintenance, replacement and
depreciation of such works, and a reserve for improvements to such works, and
may authorize expenditures from such fund to such purposes.
Fees collected for operation and maintenance shall be accounted for separately
from fees collected for the Sewer Users Fund. Users fees shall be used for
construction purposes and fees collected for operation and maintenance shall be
used for operation and maintenance. (Ord. 356, 2-6-2017)
8-4-13: PRIVATE CONSTRUCTION AND EXTENSIONS:
8-4-13-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
Any person desiring to construct a sewer in, on or below any street or alley,
or desiring to construct any extension of the sanitary sewer system, in the
City, shall first obtain from the City Clerk a permit for such construction
upon application being filed with the City Clerk. The application shall state
the name of the person applying, the approximate location of the sewer and the
legal description of the land or lots to be served by the sewer, and the owners
of the said lots so served, together with the proposed size and type of pipe to
be laid and the approximate cost. (Ord. 356, 2-6-2017)
8-4-13-2: CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION:
Upon completion, the person constructing the sewer and the City Engineer must
file a certificate of completion with the City Clerk setting forth the location
of the sewer, the lots served, the owner of said lots, and the cost per lot or
the cost per front foot served by the sewer. (Ord. 356, 2-6-2017)
8-4-13-3: AFFIDAVIT OF OWNERS PARTICIPATING IN COST:
The person constructing the sewer must file with the City Clerk an affidavit
stating the legal description of the lots and the owners thereof who have
participated in the cost of the construction of the sewer. (Ord. 356, 2-6-2017)
8-4-13-4: DRAINAGE REQUIREMENTS:
No drain or sewer pipe shall have an internal diameter of less than four inches
(4"), and all sewers and drains shall be of sufficient size to accommodate the
property they are intended to drain. The owners of each and every parcel of
real property within the City shall install backflow preventers or check valves
on the drains and sewers located on said owner's property. Failure on the part
of any owner to properly maintain the backflow preventer or check valve, or to
cause such an installation to be made, will relieve the City from all
responsibility for any and all damages suffered by said owner as a result of a
backflow of sewerage onto said owner's real property and appurtenant
structures. (Ord. 356, 2-6-2017)
8-4-13-5: NO SERVICE FOR OWNERS NOT PARTICIPATING IN COST:
No person owning property which can be served by the sewer who has not
participated in the construction costs or does not have an affidavit of
payment, as provided in section
8-4-13-6 of this chapter, shall be served by the sewer or connect any building
sewer or house sewer thereto, unless a period of five (5) years has elapsed
from the date of the completion of the sewer or unless said person, after the
completion of the sewer, became a successor in interest of the owner of the
property who caused said sewer to be constructed. (Ord. 356, 2-6-2017)
8-4-13-6: CONNECTION; APPLICATION REQUIRED; AFFIDAVIT OF PAYMENT REQUIRED:
All persons desiring to connect to the City sewer system must make application
to the City Clerk, and such application must be accompanied by an affidavit of
payment from the person constructing the sewer that such land or person or
owner has paid such pro rata charge, if such land description or name is not
included in the original certificate of completion. If no affidavit of payment
is filed with the application, the City Administrator shall not issue such
permit until the applicant has received a receipt of payment of the pro rata
cost from either the original constructor, their assigns or the City Clerk. In
the event the person desiring such connection is unable to secure an affidavit
of payment from the person constructing the sewer, the connection can be made
by the applicant tendering to the City Clerk the pro rata cost for such lot as
set forth in the completion certificate to be payable to and delivered by the
City Clerk to the original constructor or their assigns. (Ord. 356, 2-6-2017)
8-4-13-7: PRIVATE CONSTRUCTION PREVIOUSLY COMPLETED:
All persons having constructed sewers prior to the effective date of the
provisions codified in this chapter may file with the City Clerk a certificate
of completion as provided in section
8-4-13-2 of this chapter, and the provisions of this chapter for connection
service shall be effective on these sewers already constructed. (Ord. 356, 2-6-
2017)
8-4-13-8: EXTENSION; AFFIDAVIT OF PAYMENT NOT REQUIRED:
An affidavit of payment of pro rata costs shall not be required for the
extension of any sewer. (Ord. 356, 2-6-2017)
8-4-13-9: INTERCEPTORS, MAINS OR LATERALS; APPLICABILITY TO CITY:
The provisions contained in this chapter shall apply in cases and instances
where the City has constructed or will construct sewer interceptors, mains or
laterals. All references to construction of sewer interceptors, mains or
laterals by private persons shall include construction of sewer interceptors,
mains or laterals by the City. (Ord. 356, 2-6-2017)
8-4-14: REVIEW OF PROVISIONS:
This chapter shall be reviewed biennially. The requirement of biennial review
shall not imply that a revision is required. (Ord. 356, 2-6-2017)
8-4-15: ANNUAL NOTICE TO USERS:
Annual notification to each user regarding that portion of the user charges
attributable to wastewater treatment services shall be provided on an annual
basis. (Ord. 356, 2-6-2017)
***** CHAPTER 5
SEWER SERVICE RATES; CHARGES *****
SECTION:
8-5-1: Effective Date
8-5-2: Sewer Service Rate Schedule
8-5-3: Sewer Connection Fees (Rep. by Ord. 364, 9-18-2017)
8-5-4: Rules Covering Connection Fees
8-5-5: Sewer User's Fee
8-5-1: EFFECTIVE DATE:
Effective February 1, 2017, a schedule of rates and charges to be imposed for
sewer services rendered by the sewage collection system of the City, as the
same now exist, and as it may hereafter be improved and extended shall be set
by a resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 356, 2-6-2017)
8-5-2: SEWER SERVICE RATE SCHEDULE:
Commencing February 1, 2017, sewer services shall be charged in accordance with
a resolution adopted by the City Council. Sewer rates will be based on an
annual evaluation of average winter water usage. (Ord. 356, 2-6-2017)
8-5-3: SEWER CONNECTION FEES:
(Rep. by Ord. 364, 9-18-2017)
8-5-4: RULES COVERING CONNECTION FEES:
   (A)   Any applicant for a sewer connection to any lot abutting on a street,
alley or other right-of-way containing a main sewer line shall pay a full
connection fee therefor.
   (B)   In case two (2) or more dwellings exist on any lot under the same
ownership, and if any of such dwellings is located to the rear of the other or
if at least seventy five feet (75') from the property line abutting on any
street, alley or right-of-way containing a main sewer line, the rear dwelling
shall be charged one-half (1/2) of the applicable full connection fee where the
owner thereof requests one stub for dwellings on such lot and the same service
lateral is used for all such dwellings.
   (C)   In any business block or shopping center containing more than one
adjoining business or commercial establishment under one ownership, where more
than one such establishment is connected with the same service lateral, but
separate applications for service are made and separate billings requested, one
of such establishments shall pay the applicable full connection fee and each
additional establishment shall pay one-half (1/2) the applicable connection fee
required for connection of similar size. (Ord. 81, 1-3-1966)
   (D)   Any person owning improved or unimproved real property which does not
abut a street, alley or right-of-way containing a main sewer line and/or who
subdivides the same for construction of dwellings, shall install collection
lines acceptable to the City and connect the same to an existing City main
sewer line at a place to be determined by the engineer all at the cost and
expense of the owner, but shall pay for only one sewer connection fee for
connecting to existing sewer line.
Bills shall be due and payable on the date mailed. The owner of each building
connected to the water and sewer system shall be deemed primarily liable for
the payment of water and sewer billings. Pursuant to arrangements with the
owner, a tenant may pay such charges and reduce the owner's liability by the
amount of any such payment. Acceptance by the City of such payment from a
tenant shall not constitute a waiver by the City of the owner's primary
liability for charges not paid by the tenant. (Ord. 364, 9-18-2017)
8-5-5: SEWER USER'S FEE:
   (A)   There shall be and this does establish a sewer user's fee, which fee
shall be set by a resolution of the City Council, which shall be added to every
sewer bill of every person receiving water services from the City.
   (B)   The purpose of the additional user's fee shall be to purchase
materials, including, but not limited to, pipes, valves and other necessary
material to improve, replace, or maintain portions of the presently existing
sewer system, as replacement may be needed.
   (C)   The monies collected from the user's fee shall be accounted for
separately and spent only for the materials specified in the ordinance and for
no other purposes, unless additional funds may be obtained through private,
State or governmental grants for the improvement of the City sewer system.
(Ord. 364, 9-18-2017)
***** CHAPTER 6
WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM *****
SECTION:
8-6-1: Purpose
8-6-2: Definitions
8-6-3: Cross Connections
8-6-4: Use Of Backflow Prevention Devices
8-6-5: Cross Connection Inspection
8-6-6: Installation Permits
8-6-7: Additional Remedies
8-6-8: Domestic Water Wells
8-6-9: Violations And Penalties
8-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health of water consumers
by the control of actual and/or potential cross connections. (1960 Code)
8-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise indicates, the
following terms shall have the meanings set forth:
BACKFLOW: The flow of nonpotable water, liquids, gases, or other foreign
substances into the pipes of a potable water system from any source or sources.
BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE: A device to counteract back pressure or prevent
back siphonage.
CITY: The city of New Plymouth, Idaho, or its authorized agent.
CONSUMER: Any person served by a public water system.
CONTAMINANT: Any physical, chemical, biological, or radiological substance or
matter in water.
CONTAMINATION: The entry into or presence in a public water supply of any
substance which may be deleterious to health and/or quality of the water.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any actual or potential connection or structural arrangement
between a public or a consumer's potable water system and any other source or
system through which it is possible to introduce into any part of the potable
system used water, industrial fluid, gas or substance other than the intended
potable water with which the system is supplied. Bypass arrangements, jumper
connections, removable sections, swivel or changeover devices and other
temporary or permanent devices through which or because of which "backflow" can
or may occur are cross connections.
DEPARTMENT: The Idaho state department of health and welfare or an authorized
representative of the department of health and welfare.
DIRECTOR: The director of the department of health and welfare or his designee.
HEALTH OFFICER: The Idaho department of health and welfare's district health
officer or other authorized agent of the department.
PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY: Any system or water supply including all mains, pipes, and
structures through which water is obtained and distributed, including wells and
well structures, intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants,
reservoirs, storage tanks and appurtenances, collectively or severally,
actually used or intended for use for the purpose of furnishing water to the
general public for human consumption or general domestic use.
WATER AND SEWER SUPERINTENDENT: A duly appointed person as designated by the
city or his designated agent. (1960 Code)
8-6-3: CROSS CONNECTIONS:
No water service connection to any premises shall be installed or continued in
use by the city unless the water supply is protected by backflow prevention
devices as may be required by this chapter and section 1-8306 of the Idaho
regulations for public drinking water. The installation or maintenance of a
cross connection which will endanger the water quality of the potable water
supply of the city shall be unlawful and is prohibited. Any such cross
connection now existing or hereafter installed is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance and the same shall be abated. The control or elimination of
cross connections shall be in accordance with this chapter and section 1-8306
of the Idaho regulations for public drinking water, together with the latest
edition of appropriate manuals of standard practice pertaining to cross
connection control approved by the department. The city shall have the
authority to establish requirements more stringent than state regulations if
they deem that the conditions so dictate. The city shall adopt rules and
regulations as necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter. (1960
Code)
8-6-4: USE OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
   (A)   Backflow prevention devices shall be installed on any premises at the
point on the premises where the consumer connects to the public water supply
system or within any premises where, in the judgment of the city, the nature
and extent of the activities, or the materials stored on the premises, would
present an immediate and dangerous hazard to health and/or deleterious to the
quality of the water should a cross connection occur; even though such cross
connection does not exist at the time the backflow prevention devices shall be
installed under circumstances including, but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Premises having any auxiliary water supply, unless the quality of
the auxiliary supply is in compliance with state of Idaho title 1, chapter 8,
Idaho regulations for public drinking water and is acceptable to the city.
      2.   Premises having internal cross connections that are not correctable,
or intricate plumbing arrangements which make it impracticable to ascertain
whether or not cross connections exist.
      3.   Premises where entry is restricted so that inspections for cross
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency or at sufficiently short
notice to assure that cross connections do not exist.
      4.   Premises having a repeated history of cross connections being
established or reestablished.
      5.   Premises, on which any contaminant is handled under pressure so as
to permit entry into the public water supply, or where a cross connection could
reasonably be expected to occur. This shall include the handling of process
waters and cooling waters.
      6.   Premises where materials of a toxic or hazardous nature are handled
in such a way that if back siphonage should occur, a serious health hazard
might result.
      7.   The following types of facilities will fall into one of the above
categories where a backflow prevention device is required to protect the public
water supply. A backflow prevention device shall be installed at these
facilities unless the city and department determine that no hazard exists:
Agricultural chemical storage, formulations and distribution facilities;
Car washes;
Chemical or other industrial plants;
Food processing plants;
Hospitals;
Laboratories;
Mortuaries;
Petroleum storage facilities;
Piers and docks;
Sewage treatment plants;
Tank truck fill stations;
Other facilities specified by the director or the city.
   (B)   The type of protective device required shall depend on the degree of
hazard which exists:
      1.   In cases where testing and repair of mechanical devices is not
possible an air gap separation shall be required.
      2.   An air gap separation or reduced pressure principle prevention
device shall be required where the water system may be contaminated with sewage
or other hazardous or toxic substances which may have an effect on the health
of the consumer.
      3.   A double check valve assembly, an air gap separation, or a reduced
pressure principle backflow prevention device shall be installed where the
water system may be contaminated with a substance which may be aesthetically
objectionable but not hazardous to the health of the consumer.
   (C)   Backflow prevention devices required by this chapter shall be
installed at the meter, at the property line of the premises when meters are
not used, or at a location designated by the city. The device shall be located
so as to be readily accessible for maintenance and testing, and furthermore,
where not part of the device will be submerged.
   (D)   Backflow prevention devices required by this chapter shall be
installed under the supervision of, and with the approval of, the water and
sewer superintendent or his designee.
   (E)   Any protective device required by this chapter shall be a model
approved by the director. A double check valve assembly or reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention device will be approved if it has successfully
passed performance tests of the University of Southern California engineering
center or other testing laboratories satisfactory to the city and the director.
These devices shall be furnished and installed by and at the expense of the
customer.
   (F)   Backflow prevention devices installed pursuant to this chapter shall
be inspected and tested periodically. Inspection and testing intervals shall be
in conformance with time periods specified in the city cross connection and
backflow prevention program. Inspections, tests and maintenance of backflow
prevention devices shall be at the customer's expense. Whenever the devices are
found to be defective, they shall be repaired or replaced at the customer's
expense. Inspections, tests, repairs and records thereof shall be accomplished
under the city's supervision.
   (G)   Failure of a customer to cooperate in the installation, maintenance,
testing or inspection of backflow prevention devices required by this chapter
and section 1-8306 of the Idaho regulations for public drinking water, shall be
grounds for the termination of water services to the premises, or, in the
alternative, the installation of an air gap separation or other device at the
customer's expense. (1960 Code)
8-6-5: CROSS CONNECTION INSPECTION:
   (A)   No water shall be delivered to any new facility cited in subsection
8-6-4(A) of this chapter within areas served by city water until the same shall
have been inspected by the city for possible cross connections and been
approved as being free of same.
   (B)   Any construction for industrial or other purposes which are cited in
subsection
8-6-4(A)7 of this chapter, where it is reasonable to anticipate cross
connections, or as determined by the director, shall be protected by the
installation of one or more backflow prevention devices at the point of service
from the public water supply or any other location designated by the city.
   (C)   Inspections shall be made periodically of all facilities cited in
subsection
8-6-4(A) of this chapter receiving water through the city's system for the
purpose of ascertaining whether cross connections exist. Such inspections shall
be made by the city. (1960 Code)
8-6-6: INSTALLATION PERMITS:
If cross connection control device(s) are found to be necessary, the owner of
the property served must apply to the city for a specific installation permit.
(1960 Code)
8-6-7: ADDITIONAL REMEDIES:
In the event an improper cross connection is not corrected within the time
limit set by the city, or, in the event the city is refused access to any
property for the purpose of determining whether or not cross connections exist;
delivery of water to the property shall cease until the deficiency is corrected
to the city's satisfaction. In addition, the city may effect the necessary
repairs or modifications at the expense of the property owner and refuse
delivery of water to the property until the cost thereof shall have been paid.
(1960 Code)
8-6-8: DOMESTIC WATER WELLS:
   (A)   After August 15, 2001, there shall be no domestic water wells drilled
within the city limits. All water used for domestic consumption shall be drawn
from city wells drilled and operated by the city. Payment for water supplied
shall be made in accordance with a rate schedule which may be established from
time to time. Sand point or shallow wells may be drilled and used solely for
irrigation purposes, but a well drilled for irrigation purposes shall not be
connected to a residence, to any structure receiving city water, nor shall it
be connected in any way to the city water system nor to any device through
which water from said well may flow into or contaminate the city water system.
Any wells located within the city limits which have been drilled and used for
domestic purposes prior to August 15, 2001, shall be allowed to remain and
shall be subject to the regulations set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Any person who drills any well or connects any well to any dwelling or
to any structure which is connected to the city water system or who connects
any well or any private water delivery system to the city water system in
violation of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished in accordance with the general misdemeanor statutes of the state of
Idaho. (Ord. 267, 9-10-2001)
8-6-9: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, refuses to comply with, or
resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter or the rules
and regulations as adopted by the city to carry out the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof,
shall for each offense be punished by a fine in any sum not exceeding three
hundred dollars ($300.00) or imprisonment for a term not exceeding ninety (90)
days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. (1960 Code; amd. Ord. 267, 9-10-
2001)
***** CHAPTER 7
WATER DEVELOPMENT COSTS *****
SECTION:
8-7-1: Cost Recovery
8-7-2: Certificate Of Completion
8-7-3: Presentation Of Affidavit Of Payment
8-7-4: Ineligibility For Permit Until Pro Rata Costs Are Paid
8-7-5: Duties Of City Clerk
8-7-6: Address Changes And Forfeiture
8-7-7: Systems Already Constructed
8-7-1: COST RECOVERY:
Any person who is required to develop a water system as a condition of
receiving a building permit, subdivision approval or other development request,
shall for a period of fifteen (15) years after the completion of the water
system, be allowed to recover a pro rata share of the cost of the water system
from any landowner, builder, contractor or developer who obtains a building
permit or who builds a structure upon lands which will be served by and tied
into the water system. (Ord. 271, 4-15-2002)
8-7-2: CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION:
Upon completion of the water system, the developer of the system shall present
the city clerk, the city engineer or their designee, a certificate of
completion. The certificate shall set forth a description of the water system,
addresses of abutting properties, the cost of the system, the cost per lot or
the cost per frontage foot or the cost per acre of the system together with the
names of the owners of adjoining properties who have participated in the cost
of the construction. In the event the city clerk, the city engineer or their
designee has not received the certificate of completion within one hundred
twenty (120) days after completion, the developer shall forfeit the ability to
recover development costs allowable under this chapter. (Ord. 271, 4-15-2002)
8-7-3: PRESENTATION OF AFFIDAVIT OF PAYMENT:
Any person or applicant who attempts to obtain either a water hookup or a
building permit on a property which will be served by the water system which
has been built, developed or improved by a prior developer, shall present an
affidavit that they have paid their pro rata share of the cost of the water
system which is attributable to the property or parcel upon which they are
seeking to attach to the system or upon which they are seeking a building
permit. The city engineer shall review the affidavit and such other information
as he may require and determine the accuracy of the allocation of costs
attributable to each property receiving service from the system. (Ord. 271, 4-
15-2002)
8-7-4: INELIGIBILITY FOR PERMIT UNTIL PRO RATA COSTS ARE PAID:
An applicant for a building permit or for a water hookup which will be served
by a water system that will service their property, shall not be allowed a
permit unless that person shall present an affidavit from the original
developer that they have paid their share of the cost of the water system
development which is attributable to the property upon which they are seeking a
hookup or a building permit or permits. An applicant shall not be required to
submit an affidavit if more than fifteen (15) years has passed since the water
system was built or developed or if the name of the applicant is included in
the original certificate of completion. (Ord. 271, 4-15-2002)
8-7-5: DUTIES OF CITY CLERK:
If no affidavit of payment is filed with the application, the building official
shall not issue a water hookup permit or a building permit until the applicant
has received a receipt of payment of the pro rata cost from either the original
developer, his assigns or from the city clerk. The city clerk shall inform the
applicant of the last known address of the original developer and the applicant
shall endeavor to obtain the required affidavit of payment from the developer.
In the event, after ten (10) days of receipt of the last known address of the
original developer, the applicant is unable to contact the developer and cannot
obtain the required affidavit of payment, the applicant can obtain the
necessary permits after the applicant first pays to the city the pro rata cost
for the property being developed. (Ord. 271, 4-15-2002)
8-7-6: ADDRESS CHANGES AND FORFEITURE:
The original developer shall keep the city clerk informed of their current
address and of any changes of address. It shall be the sole responsibility of
developers to keep the city clerk informed of an address where applicants can
contact them, or where any funds collected can be forwarded. In the event the
city is unable to forward funds or in the event a developer does not claim any
funds for a period of one year after those funds are paid over to the city, any
funds collected from an applicant shall be forfeited and shall become a part of
the city's capital improvement fund. (Ord. 271, 4-15-2002)
8-7-7: SYSTEMS ALREADY CONSTRUCTED:
Persons or developers having constructed water systems after January 1, 2001,
may file with the city clerk a certificate of completion as provided in section
8-7-1 of this chapter and the provisions of this chapter for a hookup permit or
for a building permit shall be effective on those water systems already
constructed. (Ord. 271, 4-15-2002)
***** CHAPTER 8
MUNICIPAL IRRIGATION SYSTEM *****
SECTION:
8-8-1: Short Title
8-8-2: Authority Of The City
8-8-3: Applicability And Boundaries
8-8-4: Definitions
8-8-5: Connections
8-8-6: Responsibilities Of The City
8-8-7: Shares And Water Certificates
8-8-8: Annual Assessment For Operation And Maintenance
8-8-9: Unlawful And Prohibited Acts And Conduct
8-8-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be referred to as the MUNICIPAL IRRIGATION SYSTEM ORDINANCE OF
THE CITY OF NEW PLYMOUTH. (Ord. 393, 5-20-2019)
8-8-2: AUTHORITY OF THE CITY:
The City shall operate the system previously owned by the New Plymouth Water
Users Association within the boundaries of the City limits of New Plymouth and
as such shall provide for the distribution of irrigation water to the residents
of the City based upon the shares owned through Farmers and served by this
system, which shall include the conveyance of irrigation water through the
public streets, avenues and alleys of the City, and the construction,
maintenance and operation of the Municipal irrigation system within the City
limits. (Ord. 393, 5-20-2019)
8-8-3: APPLICABILITY AND BOUNDARIES:
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply only to that system assumed
by the City of New Plymouth pursuant to the agreement of April 20, 2010 with
the New Plymouth Water Users Association and only to the property served by
that system within the corporate limits of the City of New Plymouth or as may
hereafter be enlarged or contracted by the City Council. The boundaries of the
system in any event shall not exceed the existing corporate boundaries of the
City of New Plymouth, which are hereby established as the boundary of the
Municipal irrigation system.
   (B)   The City Council may, from time to time, contract, extend or enlarge
the boundaries of said system by ordinance. In the case of boundary extension
or enlargement of the City limits through annexation, the property owner
brought into the City limits through annexation shall not be entitled to
automatic inclusion in the Municipal irrigation system. Said property owner
shall be required to provide proof that they own sufficient shares from Farmers
to deliver water to the property and shall pay any and all costs of extension
of the system to that property. In addition, any property owner that seeks to
join the Municipal irrigation system after annexation shall pay a service hook-
up fee to the City as may be adopted from time-to-time by resolution of the
City Council. Wherever possible, the planning and zoning process shall be used
to determine these rights prior to annexation. (Ord. 393, 5-20-2019)
8-8-4: DEFINITIONS:
The definitions applicable to the Municipal irrigation system shall be those
commonly used in the State of Idaho for irrigation systems and as provided by
the laws of the State of Idaho. (Ord. 393, 5-20-2019)
8-8-5: CONNECTIONS:
   (A)   Each property within the boundaries of the Municipal irrigation system
may be connected to the irrigation main through a City irrigation service line
sufficient to deliver the shares of water, upon compliance with the terms of
this chapter.
   (B)   No irrigation water shall be provided by the Municipal irrigation
system unless the City is satisfied that all rules and regulations provided for
the Municipal irrigation system have been fulfilled, and all fees set forth in
the rate schedule adopted by resolution of the City Council have been paid.
   (C)   Service connections shall be made only to irrigation mains, and no
connections shall be made to the circulating lines. Where existing service
connections have been attached to trunk or circulating lines, the City shall
have the right, at its expense, to remove the same and attach them to
irrigation mains.
   (D)   Each property owner shall furnish pipe and valves required for the
service connection, at his own cost and expense, together with the necessary
excavation and replacement for the installation thereof.
   (E)   The City shall make the actual connection between the service line and
the City main.
   (F)   Each parcel entitled to a share or shares of water shall require a
separate connection for the delivery of water pursuant to those shares.
   (G)   No connection to the Municipal irrigation system shall be made and no
irrigation shall be permitted to flow into the connection except upon the
inspection of and approval by the City.
   (H)   Head gates, weirs, delivery boxes or other measuring or delivery
devices for the delivery or measurement to individual users of irrigation water
shall be paid for by the City.
Installation of the irrigation measuring or delivery devices shall be owned by
the City and the City shall be responsible to keep the irrigation measuring or
delivery devices in good working order.
   (I)   The duty of the City to keep the measuring and delivery devices in
repair shall not prevent the City from seeking recovery of the costs of repairs
from responsible parties who may intentionally or negligently damage those
devices.
   (J)   Should the property owner cause damage to the City system, the
property owner shall be responsible to pay the cost of any repairs to the
system. Failure to pay for the cost may result in the City refusing to deliver
water until such costs are paid.
   (K)   Damage to delivery points caused or allowed to occur by the property
owner may be deemed the responsibility of the property owner at the discretion
of the Public Works Superintendent or designee, in which case the City may
effect repair and invoice the property owner for the cost of delivery point
repair.
   (L)   For those delivery points with valves owned by the property owner, the
property owner shall be responsible for proper operation of the valve for the
access of irrigation water. Any damages resulting from improper valve
operation, including but not limited to unintended flooding of property if the
valve is left open and/or damage to the delivery point or valve through misuse,
shall be the responsibility of the property owner.
   (M)   No person supplied with water from the Municipal irrigation system
will be entitled to use it for any purpose other than irrigation of that
subject property and/or watering of animals. Irrigation water shall not be
supplied to other properties or diverted to other property or uses with the
intent of bypassing the provisions of this chapter.
   (N)   Wastewater from the use of the irrigation system shall either be
retained on the property entitled to the delivery of water or shall be diverted
and returned to the Municipal irrigation system. Any wastewater that moves onto
property that does not own a share and is not entitled to use water from the
Municipal irrigation system and is used by that property for irrigation
purposes shall not be construed to create a water right and any other
entitlement to that wastewater at any time.
   (O)   Any property owner with ownership of existing shares that does not
have an existing hook up to the Municipal irrigation system and that seeks to
join the Municipal irrigation system after the adoption of this chapter, shall
pay a service hook-up fee to the City as may be adopted from time-to-time by
resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 393, 5-20-2019)
8-8-6: RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE CITY:
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the City to keep the Municipal irrigation
system in good repair and operating condition, and to keep the ditches clean
and free from obstructions.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the Public Works Superintendent or
designee, acting on behalf of the City, to supervise and control, under such
rules and policies as the Mayor and Council may adopt by resolution, the
distribution and apportionment of all irrigation water to those entitled to its
distribution, in proportion to the amount of land to be irrigated.
   (C)   The Public Works Superintendent or designee shall have sole control
and regulation of all head gates, weirs, delivery boxes, and other measuring
and delivery devices.
   (D)   The City shall inform the water users of the quantity of water they
are to receive, and the times and the duration of the delivery thereof.
   (E)   The City shall be permitted to enter upon all property to which
irrigation water is furnished from the Municipal irrigation system for testing
or any other purpose necessary, including but not limited to inspection,
observation, repair, or maintenance, for proper administration of the Municipal
irrigation system. City shall be authorized at any time to enter all properties
in emergency circumstances.
   (F)   The City reserves the right at any time without notice to shut off the
water supply for repairs, extensions or any other reason, and the City shall
not be responsible for damaged pumps, pipes or fixtures, or any other damage.
   (G)   The City shall not be liable under any circumstance for deficiency or
failure in the supply of water whether by the shutting off of the water to make
repairs or connections, or for any cause whatsoever. Nor shall the City be
responsible or otherwise liable for any damage caused as a result of failure of
a holder of a share or shares or City water certificate to have a float/pump
protection/pressure switch installed for the delivery of water to that person.
   (H)   Water rights and the delivery of water pursuant to this chapter shall
be considered pooled for delivery purposes unless demand is made as required by
Idaho Code section 50-1805A. (Ord. 393, 5-20-2019)
8-8-7: SHARES AND WATER CERTIFICATES:
   (A)   On and after October 1, 2020, and pursuant to Idaho Code section 50-
1803, any person who owns shares and receives delivery of irrigation water from
the City of New Plymouth Municipal Irrigation System, shall assign those shares
to the City of New Plymouth, to be held in trust for that person and to insure
the delivery of water to which that person and shares may be entitled.
   (B)   Upon assignment of a share or shares, and pursuant to Idaho Code
section 50-1804, the City of New Plymouth shall issue a City water certificate
to the assignor of the share or shares, showing that such assignor is entitled
to all the water to which he was originally entitled under the share or shares
originally issued by the canal or irrigation company providing the water, and
which certificates shall be signed by the Mayor and Clerk of the City with the
Corporate Seal affixed. The City water certificate shall guarantee that upon
assignment, the owner of the share or shares is entitled to the full property
rights concerning the use and benefit to be derived from the water originally
enjoyed under such assigned share or shares. (Ord. 393, 5-20-2019)
8-8-8: ANNUAL ASSESSMENT FOR OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE:
   (A)   The City Council and Mayor shall adopt by resolution an amount
necessary to operate and maintain the Municipal irrigation system, which shall
be assessed and billed to the owners of property being served by the system.
   (B)   All amounts received pursuant to this section shall be deposited and
credited to a separate fund, to be known as the Irrigation Fund, and all
expenditures therefrom shall be dedicated to the payment of assessments for the
shares, and the operation, maintenance, replacement, upgrade and extension of
the Municipal irrigation system and for no other purposes.
   (C)   Measurement of water to the Municipal irrigation system based upon the
number of shares shall be the responsibility of Farmers.
   (D)   Fees collected by the City for the Municipal irrigation system shall
be used solely for the delivery system to the property entitled to such water
within the boundaries of the City limits.
   (E)   The City shall be responsible for collecting assessments on shares
imposed by Farmers or its successors on property within the Municipal
irrigation system that receives water from the system. Collection of the
assessments on shares shall be placed in the Irrigation Fund. The City shall
remit such assessments to Farmers annually upon billing by Farmers for the
amount of the assessments. The City by resolution shall be entitled to
establish an amount in addition to said assessments for the cost of collecting
the assessments on behalf of Farmers, which amount shall be retained by the
City. The City and Farmers may create a written agreement in order to
memorialize this provision.
   (F)   Failure to pay the assessments or fees required by this chapter by the
owner of the property entitled to the delivery of water by the Municipal
irrigation system, shall entitle the City of New Plymouth to use all methods to
recover the assessments, fees or costs as provided by chapter 18, title 50,
Idaho Code or any other provision of Idaho law. (Ord. 393, 5-20-2019)
8-8-9: UNLAWFUL AND PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDUCT:
   (A)   It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to change, alter, destroy,
disturb, meddle, tamper or interfere with, any head gate, dam, weir, water box
or other measuring or delivery device, placed, used or regulated by the City
for the purpose of administering the Municipal irrigation system.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person:
      1.   To place in any ditch earthen dams or checks;
      2.   To injure, damage or destroy ditches, laterals, pipes, flumes,
culverts or other devices within the City by which irrigation water is conveyed
or distributed to the inhabitants thereof, or to permit livestock of any kind
owned by him or in his charge to trample down, damage, injure or destroy the
same.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to divert or otherwise appropriate
Municipal irrigation water provided through the Municipal irrigation system in
any manner not in compliance with the irrigation schedule for that property.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person to divert or otherwise appropriate or
use Municipal irrigation water provided through the Municipal irrigation
systems when the assessment or assessments levied against said property have
not been paid as required by this chapter.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to meddle, dam, turn,
interfere, or in any manner tamper with the irrigation water and disarrange the
schedule of the Municipal irrigation system and thereby deprive any user or
landowner entitled to the use of the water, from the uninterrupted use and
benefit of his turn of the water.
   (F)   Violation of any of the provisions of this section shall constitute a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 393, 5-20-2019)
TITLE IX
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
***** CHAPTER 1
SIDEWALKS *****
SECTION:
9-1-1: Specifications
9-1-2: Property Owner Must Construct Sidewalks
9-1-3: Failure to Comply
9-1-1: SPECIFICATIONS:
The material and method of constructing sidewalks shall conform in all respects
to the specifications adopted by the Governing Body. These specifications shall
be on file in the Clerk's office at all times.
9-1-2: PROPERTY OWNER MUST CONSTRUCT SIDEWALKS:
It shall be the duty of every property owner, upon notification by the
Governing Body, to construct or repair sidewalks as such is prescribed in said
notice.
9-1-3: FAILURE TO COMPLY:
If such property owner shall fail, after notification, to construct or repair
any sidewalk, the Governing Body may order same constructed or repaired. The
costs of said work shall be assessed against the property owner for which said
sidewalk was constructed or repaired and said cost shall become a lien upon the
property.
***** CHAPTER 2
REMOVAL OF SNOW AND/OR ICE *****
SECTION:
9-2-1: Removal of Snow and/or Ice
9-2-2: Notice to be Given
9-2-3: Upon Failure to Comply, Municipality to Remove
9-2-1: REMOVAL OF SNOW AND/OR ICE:
It shall be the duty of the owner or tenant of any premises abutting or
adjoining any public sidewalk to remove all snow and/or ice from such sidewalk.
9-2-2: NOTICE TO BE GIVEN:
It shall be the duty of the Municipality to give notice to any owner or tenant
of any property to remove snow and/or ice, which notice shall be sent by
registered mail to the last known address of such owner, tenant or occupant.
The owner or occupant shall have not more than twenty-four (24) hours from and
after receipt of such notice, within which to remove the snow and/or ice as set
forth in said notice.
9-2-3: UPON FAILURE TO COMPLY, MUNICIPALITY TO REMOVE:
Upon failure of an owner or tenant to comply with the provisions of this
Chapter, the Municipality shall have the right to remove such snow and/or ice
and assess the cost thereof against the premises abutting the sidewalk. Such
assessment to be certified to the County Assessor or other proper County
Official having charge of the making of the assessment roll and such charge
shall be placed on the assessment roll and collected in the same manner as
other Municipal taxes are collected.
***** CHAPTER 3
TREES AND SHRUBBERY *****
SECTION:
9-3-1: Trees To Be Trimmed
9-3-2: Hedges And Shrubbery
9-3-3: Injury To Trees And/Or Shrubbery
9-3-4: Trees Outside Of Property Line
9-3-1: TREES TO BE TRIMMED:
Any owner or occupant of any real property shall trim all trees on property
owned or occupied by him, overhanging any public thoroughfare, so that the
branches thereon will not interfere with pedestrians or public travel. (1960
Code)
9-3-2: HEDGES AND SHRUBBERY:
Any owner or occupant of any real property shall maintain all hedges and
shrubbery adjacent to public sidewalks so that no part of said hedges and/or
shrubbery shall extend over any part of a public sidewalk in the municipality.
(1960 Code)
9-3-3: INJURY TO TREES AND/OR SHRUBBERY:
It is hereby declared unlawful for any person, not the owner thereof, or
without lawful authority so to do, wilfully to injure, deface, disfigure or
destroy any tree or shrub, or to injure, destroy, cut or pick any flower or
plant, located either on private ground or on any public place or thoroughfare.
(1960 Code)
9-3-4: TREES OUTSIDE OF PROPERTY LINE:
The governing body of the municipality is hereby provided full and complete
control over all trees which are outside the property lines of privately owned
real property. (1960 Code)
***** CHAPTER 4
WEEDS *****
SECTION:
9-4-1: Definition
9-4-2: Removal Of Weeds Required
9-4-3: Failure To Comply
9-4-1: DEFINITION:
Weeds shall include all vegetable growth that is troublesome, useless or
noxious. (1960 Code)
9-4-2: REMOVAL OF WEEDS REQUIRED:
All occupants or owners are hereby required to destroy all weeds upon their
premises to the center of the street or alley. (1960 Code)
9-4-3: FAILURE TO COMPLY:
Whenever the growth of weeds advances to a condition prohibited by this
chapter, the municipality, or its designated official, shall notify such
occupant or owner to remove same. In default of this being done, the
municipality shall remove the same and the cost thereof shall become a lien
upon the property. Said lien shall be collected as provided by law. (1960 Code)
***** CHAPTER 5
NAMING AND NUMBERING OF STREETS *****
SECTION:
9-5-1: Numbering of Streets
9-5-2: Numbering of Houses
9-5-1: NUMBERING OF STREETS:
The numbers for address purposes in the City of New Plymouth shall be assigned
to the various streets, avenues, and boulevards as follows:
Beginning with the hub, (the intersection of Plymouth Avenue and Elm Streets)
on the Plat of the City of New Plymouth and going in any direction from the
said hub or intersection, the first block shall be in the one hundred (100)
series, the second block in the two hundred (200) series, the third block in
the three hundred (300) series, etc. to the boundary of the City.
AND ALSO THAT:
In going in any direction off of Plymouth Avenue or Elm Street that the even
numbers shall be given to the lots on the right side of the street and odd
numbers will be given to the lots on the left side of the street,
EXCEPT:
That off of Plymouth Avenue from Elm Street to the South outside Boulevard the
even and odd numbers will be opposite because the lots will be numbered off of
Elm Street.
One number will be allotted to each twenty five feet (25') of street frontage.
(Ord. 84; 11-7-66)
9-5-2: NUMBERING OF HOUSES:
The decimal system of numbering houses and buildings is hereby adopted. The
Clerk shall assign to each house or building its proper number, and upon
application shall deliver, free of charge, to the owner or occupant thereof, a
certificate designating the number.
It shall be the duty of every owner of any building of any kind now constructed
which faces upon any street, avenue, alley or boulevard in the City for which a
system of numbering has been adopted, to number such houses and buildings in
accordance with the provisions of this Chapter. All numbers shall be of
aluminum, white metal, nickel plated metal or other white colored durable
material, or may consist of gilt or aluminum lettering on the inside of a glass
transom, window or door; all numbers shall be distinctly legible and at least
three inches (3") high; and all numbers other than gilt or aluminum shall be
placed conspicuously over or upon the front door of the building to which the
same are to be attached.
***** CHAPTER 6
CATV FRANCHISE *****
SECTION:
9-6-1: Definitions
9-6-2: Grant of Authority
9-6-3: Grantee Rules
9-6-4: Service Standards
9-6-5: City Rights in Franchise
9-6-6: Conditions of Street Occupancy, Use
9-6-7: Erection, Removal and Common Use of Poles
9-6-8: System Construction and Extension
9-6-9: Rates and Fees of Subscribers
9-6-10: Semi-Annual Financial Report
9-6-11: Preferential or Discriminatory Practices Prohibited
9-6-12: Company Liability, Indemnification
9-6-13: Faithful Performance Bond
9-6-14: Operational Standards
9-6-15: Time of Construction
9-6-16: Extension Policy
9-6-17: Service to Schools
9-6-18: Duration and Conditions for Acceptance of Franchise
9-6-19: Limitations of Franchise
9-6-20: No Joint Venture
9-6-21: Revocation, Cancellation, Forfeiture
9-6-22: Separability
9-6-23: Miscellaneous Provisions
9-6-24: Payments to City
9-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When not inconsistent with the
context, words used in the present tense include the future tense, words in the
plural include the singular and words in the singular include the plural. The
word "shall" is always mandatory and not directory.
CITY: The City of New Plymouth, a municipal corporation of the State of Idaho
in its present incorporated form or in any other reorganized, consolidated or
changed form.
COUNCIL: The present governing body of the City or any future body constituting
the legislative body of the City.
GRANTEE: New Plymouth Cablevision and Associates, or anyone who succeeds New
Plymouth Cablevision and Associates to which a franchise under this Chapter is
granted by the Council, in accordance with the provisions of this franchise.
CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM: Hereafter referred to as "CATV", "CATV System" or
"System" shall mean a system of antennae, coaxial cables, wave guides or other
conductors, equipment or facilities designed, constructed or used for the
purpose of providing television, F.M. radio, or other services by cable through
its facilities as herein contemplated.
SUBSCRIBER: Any person or entity receiving for any purpose the CATV service of
the grantee herein.
9-6-2: GRANT OF AUTHORITY:
   (A)   There is hereby granted by the City of New Plymouth, State of Idaho,
to the grantee, the right and privilege to construct, operate and maintain a
cable television system within the City for the distribution of television
signals, F.M. radio, or other services by cable, and to use and occupy the
streets and public ways therefor, subject to the terms, conditions and
provisions contained herein.
   (B)   The right to use and occupy the streets and public ways for the
purposes herein set forth shall not be exclusive, and the City reserves the
right to grant a similar use of said streets and public ways to any person,
firm or corporation at any time during the period of this franchise.
9-6-3: GRANTEE RULES:
The grantee shall have the authority to promulgate such rules, regulations,
terms and conditions governing the conduct of its business as shall be
reasonably necessary to enable said grantee to exercise its rights and perform
its obligations under this franchise and to assure uninterrupted service to
each and all of its customers. Provided, however, that such rules, regulations,
terms and conditions shall not be in conflict with the provisions hereof, the
rules of the Federal Communications Commission, or the laws of the State of
Idaho.
9-6-4: SERVICE STANDARDS:
The grantee shall maintain and operate its system and render efficient service
in accordance with such rules and regulations as are, or may be hereinafter
promulgated by the grantor or by the Federal Communications Commission.
Whenever it is necessary to interrupt service for the purpose of making
repairs, adjustments or installations, the grantee shall do so at such time as
will cause the least amount of inconvenience to its customers.
9-6-5: CITY RIGHTS IN FRANCHISE:
   (A)   City Rules: The grantee shall at all times during the life of this
franchise be subject to the lawful exercise of the police power of the City and
to such reasonable protection as the City may hereafter by resolution or
ordinance provide.
   (B)   Use of System by City: The City shall have the right, without cost, to
make attachments to poles owned and used by the grantee in connection with its
fire or police signal systems or other City use, such attachments to be
installed and maintained in accordance with the requirements of the National
Electric Safety Code, and only after written notice to the grantee; provided,
however, that the grantee shall assume no liability or expense in connection
therewith, and provided further, that the City's use thereof shall be in such a
manner as not to interfere with the television operations of the grantee. In
case of any emergency or disaster, the grantee shall, upon request of the City
Council or Mayor, make available its facilities to the City for emergency use.
9-6-6: CONDITIONS OF STREET OCCUPANCY, USE:
   (A)   Use: All transmission and distribution structures, lines and equipment
erected by the grantee within the City shall be so located as to cause minimum
interference with the proper use of streets, alleys and other public ways and
places, and not to interfere with existing public installations. In all areas
of the City where the cables, wires or other like facilities of public
utilities are placed underground, the grantee shall place its cables, wires or
other like facilities underground. The grantee shall furnish to and file with
the City maps, plats and permanent records of the location and character of all
facilities constructed, including underground facilities.
   (B)   Restoration: In case of any disturbance of right of way, pavement,
sidewalk, driveway or other surfacing, the grantee shall, at its own expense
and in the manner provided by the grantor, replace and restore all rights of
way, paving, sidewalk, driveway or other surface of any street or alley
disturbed. It is further agreed that the grantee shall, for a period of one
year, guarantee such restoration and in the event there is a problem, shall,
upon given notice, repair same within fifteen (15) days after notice. If the
grantee fails to complete such repairs as requested, then the grantor may do so
at the expense of the grantee.
   (C)   Relocations: If at any time during the period of this franchise the
City shall lawfully elect to alter or change the grade or location of any
street, alley or other public way, the grantee shall, upon reasonable notice by
the City, remove, relay and relocate its poles, wires, cables, underground
conduits, manholes and other fixtures at its own expense, and in each instance
comply with the requirements of the City.
   (D)   Placement of Fixtures: The grantee shall not place poles, conduits or
other fixtures above or below ground where the same will interfere with any
gas, electric, telephone fixtures, water hydrant or other utility, and all such
poles, conduits or other fixtures placed in any street shall be so placed as to
comply with all requirements of the City.
   (E)   Temporary Removal of Wire and/or Fixtures for Moving Buildings: The
grantee shall, on request of any person holding a moving permit issued by the
City, temporarily move its wires or fixtures to permit the moving of buildings,
the expense of such temporary removal to be paid by the person requesting the
same, and the grantee shall be given not less than forty eight (48) hours
advance notice to arrange for such temporary changes.
9-6-7: ERECTION, REMOVAL AND COMMON USE OF POLES:
   (A)   No poles or other wire-holding structures shall be erected by the
grantee without prior approval of the City Council with regard to location,
height, type and any other pertinent aspect. However, no location of any pole
or wire-holding structure of the grantee shall be vested interest and such
poles or structures shall be removed or modified by the grantee at its own
expense whenever the City Council determines that the public convenience would
be enhanced thereby.
   (B)   Where poles or other wire-holding structures already existing for use
in serving the City are available for use by the grantee, but it does not make
arrangements for such use, the City Council may require the grantee to use such
poles and structures if it determines that the public convenience would be
enhanced thereby and the terms of the use available to the grantee are just and
reasonable.
   (C)   Where the City or a public utility serving the City desires to make
use of the poles or other wire-holding structures of the grantee but agreement
therefor with the grantee cannot be reached, the City Council may require the
grantee to permit such use for such consideration and upon such terms as the
Council shall determine to be just and reasonable, if the City determines that
the use would enhance the public convenience and would not unduly interfere
with the grantee's operations.
   (D)   Where City-owned utility poles are available for use by the grantee,
the grantee shall pay the City the same pole rental as paid by the grantee for
the use of the poles owned by public utilities.
9-6-8: SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION AND EXTENSION:
   (A)   The grantee is hereby authorized to extend the system within the
franchise area to the extent that such extension is or may become technically
and economically feasible.
   (B)   Whenever the grantee shall have received written requests for service
from at least ten (10) subscribers within one thousand six hundred twenty five
(1,625) cable meters (5280 cable feet) of its aerial trunk cable, or from at
least fifteen (15) subscribers within one thousand six hundred twenty five
(1,625) cable meters (5280 cable feet) of its underground trunk cable, it shall
extend its system to such subscribers solely for the usual connection and
service fees for all subscribers.
The one thousand six hundred twenty five (1,625) meters shall be measured in
extension length of grantee's cable required for service located within the
public way or easement and shall not include length of necessary drop to the
subscriber's home or premises.
   (C)   No person in the grantee's service area shall be arbitrarily refused
service; but in recognition of the capital costs involved in unusual
circumstances, including without limitation, instances when the distance from
distribution cable to connection of service to subscribers is more than forty
five (45) meters (150 cable feet) or when a subscriber density exists less than
the density specified hereinabove, service may be made available on the basis
of costs of materials, labor and easements, in order to prevent inequitable
burdens on cable subscribers in more densely populated areas.
   (D)   For all residential structures hereinafter erected which are to be
served by underground utilities, the developer of the subdivision or
development may acquire CATV service for this development under the following
conditions; but otherwise the grantee shall not be obligated to construct CATV
system in such new development: Developer shall perform all trenching and
backfilling necessary for the provision of cable television service, including
furnishing of any imported backfill material required, and will furnish and
install for the grantee any necessary distribution conduit and substructures,
including pedestals, required in accordance with the grantee's plans and
specifications. Developer may enter into a written agreement with the grantee
at the rate of fifty percent (50%) of basic subscriber revenues generated from
CATV service supplied within the development over a period not to exceed three
(3) years.
In addition to providing plans and specifications to the developer, the grantee
shall inspect the facilities required hereunder, and certify to the City prior
to final approval of the subdivision or development that the facilities
required herein are properly installed. The City shall have the right to review
and require its approval of the maps and specifications provided by the
grantee. The cost of the portion of an extension to a subdivision or
development from the grantee's existing facilities in excess of sixty (60)
meters (200 feet) outside the boundaries of the subdivision or development
shall be borne by the developer. Facilities installed hereunder shall be owned,
operated and maintained by the grantee.
9-6-9: RATES AND FEES OF SUBSCRIBERS:
Grantee shall be entitled to charge each customer a rate and/or fee as listed
in Annex A. Rates may be altered or raised by grantee only with permission of
the grantor. Any rate increase would require that grantee give notice of its
intentions thereof to the grantor, and said increase would be in effect sixty
(60) days thereafter if grantor does not disapprove. Should grantor disapprove
the requested increase, grantee shall be allowed a public hearing before the
grantor regarding the matter, after which grantor shall reconsider the
increase.
9-6-10: SEMI-ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT:
On or before January 31 and July 31 of each calendar year during the term of
this franchise, the grantee shall file with the grantor a financial statement
of its revenue during the preceding year. Such statement shall be prepared in
conformance with generally accepted accounting practice by a certified public
accountant. Grantor and its agents shall have the right, at reasonable times
and places, to inspect the books of grantee.
9-6-11: PREFERENTIAL OR DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES PROHIBITED:
The grantee shall not, as to rates, charges, service facilities, rules,
regulations or in any other respect, make or grant any preference or
disadvantage, provided, that nothing in this franchise shall be deemed to
prohibit the establishment of a graduated scale of charges and classified rate
schedule to which any customer coming within such classification would be
entitled.
9-6-12: COMPANY LIABILITY, INDEMNIFICATION:
It is expressly understood and agreed by and between grantee and the City that
the grantee shall save the City harmless from all loss sustained by the City by
reason of any suit, judgment, execution, claim or demand resulting from the
construction, operation or maintenance by the grantee of its television system
in the City. The grantee shall, concurrently with the filing of an acceptance
of award of the franchise granted under this Chapter, file with the City Clerk
and at all times thereafter maintain in full force and effect for the term of
such franchise or renewal thereof, at grantee's sole expense, a general
comprehensive liability insurance policy, in protection of the City, its
officers, boards, commissions, agents and employees, in a company authorized to
do business in the State of Idaho, and in a form satisfactory to the City
Attorney, protecting the City and all persons against liability for loss or
damage for personal injury, death and property damage, occasioned by the
operations of grantee under such franchise in minimum amounts of:
   $100,000.00 for property damage to any one person
   500,000.00 for property damage in any one occurrence
   250,000.00 for personal injury to any one person
   500,000.00 for personal injury in any one occurrence
9-6-13: FAITHFUL PERFORMANCE BOND:
Upon the commencement of construction, the grantee shall provide a construction
performance bond that will faithfully guarantee the payment of all labor and
material costs incurred by it or its subcontractors during construction of the
system. The performance bond will be issued by a company licensed to do
business in the State of Idaho and in a form approved by the City Attorney. In
addition, the grantee shall maintain throughout the construction period a
corporate surety bond issued by a company licensed to do business in the State
of Idaho and in a form approved by the City Attorney in the principal sum of
ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) naming the City as an insured. The surety
bond shall guarantee performance of each term and condition of this franchise
contract and in the event of a breach of condition of the bond, the amount
thereof shall be recoverable from the principal by the City for all damages
resulting from failure of grantee to well and faithfully perform and observe
any provision of this franchise.
9-6-14: OPERATIONAL STANDARDS:
The CATV system shall be installed and maintained in accordance with the
minimum standards set by the applicable rules and regulations of the Federal
Communications Commission.
9-6-15: TIME OF CONSTRUCTION:
Grantee shall commence construction of the Cable TV system no later than six
(6) months from the effective date of this franchise and shall complete eighty
percent (80%) of construction within the City limits within twelve (12) months
of commencement.
In the event that the grantee does not perform according to the provisions of
this Chapter, the City shall give written notice of the particular items
wherein the grantee has failed to perform and grantee is hereby given a period
of sixty (60) days to correct the defaults of which the notice complains. If no
correction is made during said period, the grantor may, at its discretion,
assess a penalty of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per day until such default is
corrected, or may repeal this Chapter. Provided, however, that the grantee may
petition the grantor for an extension of time to comply for good cause shown.
The determination of what constitutes good cause shall be determined by the
grantor and the decision of said grantor shall be accepted as final.
9-6-16: EXTENSION POLICY:
The grantor shall grant reasonable extensions referred to in Section
9-6-15 in the event of strikes, floods, fire, acts of God, force majeure, labor
disputes, unavailability of building materials beyond the control of the
grantee or any other cause beyond the control of the grantee.
9-6-17: SERVICE TO SCHOOLS:
The grantee shall provide one service connection to State accredited public and
parochial schools within the City for educational purposes upon request by the
City and at no cost to it or the school.
9-6-18: DURATION AND CONDITIONS FOR ACCEPTANCE OF FRANCHISE:
The franchise and all rights and privileges and authority hereby granted shall
take effect for a term of twenty (20) years, provided that within thirty (30)
days after the date of passage hereof, the grantee shall file with the City
Clerk, in writing, duly executed by the proper officials, the following
documents:
Its unconditional acceptance of this franchise; and
Its surety bond as provided in Section
9-6-13; and
Its indemnification bond as provided in Section
9-6-12.
9-6-19: LIMITATIONS OF FRANCHISE:
This franchise shall be a privilege to be held in personal trust by the
original grantee. It cannot in any event be sold, transferred, leased, assigned
or disposed of in whole or in part, either by force or involuntary sale,
merger, consolidation or otherwise without consent of the grantor expressed by
resolution.
9-6-20: NO JOINT VENTURE:
By granting this franchise, the grantor and grantee are not entering into any
kind of joint venture, partnership, cooperative agreement or any other kind of
joint undertaking and neither grantor nor grantee shall make any
representations to the contrary.
9-6-21: REVOCATION, CANCELLATION, FORFEITURE:
Nothing contained herein shall be construed as denying grantor the right to
cancel or revoke this franchise for cause shown and after notice and hearing to
grantee. Cause shall be defined as any violation of this agreement, and shall
include but not be limited to, any failure to perform as required by this
franchise, or any action by grantee which could reasonably be construed as
subjecting grantor to any claims or suits, or any action by grantee which
exceeds the authority granted by this franchise.
Notice of any revocation hearing shall be given to grantee by regular U.S.
mail, upon motion of the Mayor or City Council. The notice shall briefly set
out the alleged violations and shall notify grantee of a time and place for a
revocation hearing. Grantee shall have the right to present evidence and be
represented by counsel. A tape recorded record shall be sufficient record at
any hearing.
If after hearing the City Council, by a simple majority vote of members present
at the hearing, finds sufficient cause to revoke the franchise, grantee shall
forfeit and surrender to grantor all equipment and facilities that may be
located along, over or under any streets, alleys or other public places within
the corporate limits of grantor.
Said forfeiture shall not occur if grantee shall:
   (A)   Within forty five (45) days from the date of hearing remove said
property; and
   (B)   Within ten (10) days from the date of hearing post a fifty thousand
dollar ($50,000.00) performance bond to assure that the streets, alleys and
public places from which such equipment is removed shall be restored to its
original condition.
9-6-22: SEPARABILITY:
If any section, sentence, clause or phrase of this Chapter or any part thereof
is for any reason found to be unconstitutional by a court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this Chapter or any part thereof.
9-6-23: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Time is of the essence of this franchise. The grantee shall not be
relieved of its obligations to comply promptly with any of the provisions of
this Chapter by any failure of the City to enforce prompt compliance.
   (B)   The grantee shall have no recourse against the City for any loss,
cost, expenses or damage arising out of any provisions or requirements of this
Chapter or its enforcements.
   (C)   The grantee shall maintain a toll free telephone listing in the City
in order that CATV maintenance service shall be promptly available to all
subscribers. Complaints for other than regular working hours may be made to a
separate telephone maintained for that purpose, which shall be listed in the
telephone directory, or the same telephone number may be used at the option of
the grantee. All complaints and inquiries will be investigated and responded to
or acted upon within six (6) hours. The grantee shall maintain a maintenance
service log indicating the date and time complaints are received and resolved
and the nature of the complaint and resolution. This record shall be made
available for reasonable inspection by the grantor.
   (D)   The grantee shall not repair, maintain, sell or recommend any
television or radio equipment or recommend radio and television repairmen. Any
work done to subscriber sets shall be performed by repairmen other than
employees of the grantee. The grantee is prohibited from inducing subscribers
to remove their presently installed television antennas.
   (E)   Nothing in this Chapter shall interfere with or be used to deny non-
cable television systems to serve the residents of grantor.
   (F)   Grantee shall reimburse grantor for all costs of preparing, publishing
and passing the necessary ordinance to grant the franchise.
9-6-24: PAYMENTS TO THE CITY:
The grantee shall pay to the City annually, and within sixty (60) days after
June 30 of each calendar year, an amount equal to three percent (3%) of the
gross income from subscribers residing in the City. (Ord. 144, 4-6-81)
***** CHAPTER 7
CITY STREETS AND OTHER IMPROVEMENTS *****
SECTION:
9-7-1: Construction Affecting City Property
9-7-2: Fee
9-7-3: Restoration Required
9-7-4: Penalty
9-7-1: CONSTRUCTION AFFECTING CITY PROPERTY:
No person shall cut, score, damage, bore under, paint, stripe, mar, deface, set
barriers upon, sign, build upon, build over or across nor engage in any
activity which physically alters, impacts, or affects a City street, alley,
sidewalk, curb, gutter, sidewalk, sewer line or other City improvement or City
right of way, without first obtaining a permit from the City Clerk which permit
authorizes the person's actions. (Ord. 238, 8-4-1997)
9-7-2: FEE:
There shall be a charge for any permit obtained pursuant to Section
9-7-1 of this Chapter, which charge shall be established from time to time by
resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 238, 8-4-1997)
9-7-3: RESTORATION REQUIRED:
Any person who does any act described in Section
9-7-1 of this Chapter shall restore the street, alley, curb, gutter, sidewalk,
sewer line, City improvement or right of way to a condition which conforms to
City specifications in effect at the time of restoration. (Ord. 238, 8-4-1997)
9-7-4: PENALTY:
Any person who does any act described in Section
9-7-1 of this Chapter, or exceeds the parameters of any permit issued pursuant
to Section
9-7-1 of this Chapter or who fails to perform any act required in Section
9-7-3 of this Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable in accordance
with the general misdemeanor statutes of the State. (Ord. 238, 8-4-1997)
***** CHAPTER 8
TREE CARE *****
SECTION:
9-8-1: Short Title
9-8-2: Definitions
9-8-3: Statement Of Purpose
9-8-4: Applicability
9-8-5: Creation And Establishment Of Tree Committee
9-8-6: Prohibited Practices For Public Trees
9-8-7: Removal Of Public Trees
9-8-8: Recommended Plantings
9-8-9: Certified Arborist Required
9-8-10: Removal Of Stumps
9-8-11: Interference With City Tree Committee
9-8-12: Review By City Council
9-8-13: Pruning On Private Property
9-8-14: Required Care Of Private Trees
9-8-15: Violation And Penalties
9-8-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and cited as THE NEW PLYMOUTH CITY TREE CARE
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 260, 8-7-2000)
9-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
CITY: The city of New Plymouth, Idaho.
CITY CLERK: New Plymouth city clerk and/or a designee of the mayor and New
Plymouth city council.
COMMITTEE: New Plymouth city tree committee.
COUNCIL: New Plymouth city council.
CRITICAL ROOT ZONE: The area under a tree extending from the base of a tree in
all directions to an imaginary line ten feet (10') outside of the drip line or
as determined at a preliminary site inspection by the superintendent.
HAZARD/HAZARDOUS: Any tree, public or private, with visibly defined structural
defects likely to cause failure to all or part of the tree, and be a danger to
public safety.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, association, company or
organization of any kind.
PEST: Any insect, disease or other organism harmful to trees.
PRIVATE TREE: Any tree that is not a public tree.
PRUNING: The practice of cutting tree limbs according to standards contained in
ANSI A300.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Any property owned by, dedicated to, or deeded to the public
or for the public's use. City parks, public rights of way and other publicly
owned, controlled, leased or managed properties are included in this
definition. This definition excludes any federal or state owned properties
except where otherwise provided by contract or law.
PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY: Improved or unimproved public property owned by,
dedicated to, or deeded to the public or for the public's use, for the purpose
of providing vehicular, pedestrian and other public use. Such public property
provides circulation and travel to abutting properties and includes, but is not
limited to, streets, sidewalks, landscaping, provisions for public utilities,
cut and fill slopes, and open public space.
PUBLIC SAFETY: The condition of being safe from bodily harm and/or property
damage resulting from tree conditions and/or failures while using public
property.
PUBLIC TREE: Any tree whose trunk is located, partly or in whole, on public
property.
SHRUB: A multiple stemmed, woody plant whose height at maturity is between
three feet (3') and fifteen feet (15').
TOP OR TOPPING: "Rounding" or "heading back" or any other term that can be
described as severe cutting back of limbs within a tree crown to buds, stubs,
or laterals not large enough to assume a terminal role or as defined in ANSI
A300.
TREE: Any woody plant, which is fifteen feet (15') or more in height at
maturity, with a single or multiple trunks, often unbranched for several feet
above the ground and having a definite crown. (Ord. 260, 8-7-2000)
9-8-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter shall be to encourage the preservation, expansion,
protection and proper maintenance of the New Plymouth public trees. (Ord. 260,
8-7-2000)
9-8-4: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall apply to any public tree within the city. (Ord. 260, 8-7-
2000)
9-8-5: CREATION AND ESTABLISHMENT OF TREE COMMITTEE:
   (A)   Committee Composition: There is hereby created a committee consisting
of five (5) members which committee shall be known as the New Plymouth tree
committee. The members of that committee will receive no salary and shall be
appointed by the mayor with the approval of the city council to serve three (3)
year appointments with staggered terms. A city council member may be appointed
to serve as a nonvoting council liaison. The city clerk shall serve as an
advisor to the committee.
   (B)   Committee Operation: At their first meeting, and at the first meeting
of each fiscal year, the committee shall elect a chair, vice chair, and
secretary from within its membership, shall hold regular public meetings as
required by the chair, and shall cause the secretary to maintain a written
record of its deliberations and proceedings. The committee shall adopt such
rules as it deems appropriate to enable it to conduct its business.
   (C)   Committee Responsibility:
      1.   The New Plymouth tree committee shall be advisory in nature with the
purpose of providing advice to the mayor and city council as to the
preservation, protection and management of the New Plymouth public trees, in
accordance with the intents and purposes of this chapter.
      2.   Organize, conduct and periodically maintain an inventory of trees
and plantable areas on the city rights of way, city parks, other public
properties.
      3.   Prepare a plan designed to maintain and improve the existing
community public trees.
      4.   Draft ordinances and policies for the protection of the community
trees to be recommended to the mayor and city council. These policies may also
be recommended to other public entities, such as Payette County and the New
Plymouth School District.
   (D)   Coordination And Communication: The committee will coordinate its
activities regarding public trees by communicating with the city clerk, the
public works supervisor, the mayor or the city council. (Ord. 260, 8-7-2000)
9-8-6: PROHIBITED PRACTICES FOR PUBLIC TREES:
Public trees constitute an asset that belongs to every community resident.
Public trees include all trees, which grow on city owned, or city managed lands
within the corporate limits of the city of New Plymouth. Pursuant to this
chapter it is hereby deemed unlawful and shall constitute a violation of this
chapter, punishable by misdemeanor criminal penalty or by appropriate civil
remedy to do any of the following to a public tree:
   (A)   "Top" or "head back" a tree by the improper pruning or severe cutting
back of limbs within a tree's crown or the removal of the top portion of the
trunk of a coniferous tree.
   (B)   To cut down, destroy or materially damage any public tree without the
express authorization of the city clerk, city public works director or city
council.
   (C)   Attach devices, signs or structures (such as tree houses) to, on, or
within trees on public property by nailing, drilling or tapping.
   (D)   Dispose of or apply substances which are toxic to trees, within the
proximity of the critical root zone of trees on public property.
   (E)   Damage public trees through construction operations involving
compaction of, excavation of, filling of, or tilling of soils within the
critical root zone of trees on public property, whether such activities are on
public or private property.
   (F)   Damage a tree on public property by significantly pruning or
disturbing the critical root zone whether such disturbance takes place on
public or private property.
   (G)   Vandalize or otherwise harm a public tree by defacing or injuring the
bark, limbs, roots or trunk by cutting, burning, chopping, applying substances
or other means of inducing harm to the shape or vitality of the tree.
   (H)   Remove or break devices such as bracing, cabling, guying, implant
capsules, irrigation, stakes or protective devices for trees on public
property.
   (I)   Fail to immediately clean debris from public or private tree
maintenance and/or removal so that travel will not be impeded on sidewalks or
streets. Cleanup of all debris from tree maintenance and/or removal shall be
completed within seventy two (72) hours of completed trimming and/or removal
work.
   (J)   Plant trees under the following conditions or in the following
circumstances (unless in accordance with a landscape design approved by the
superintendent of parks and recreation):
      1.   Within eight feet (8') of any building or structure.
      2.   Within ten feet (10') of any fire hydrants or utility poles.
      3.   Within four feet (4') of an existing curb, sidewalk or asphalt.
      4.   Within ten feet (10') of a public sanitary sewer or water line.
      5.   Within four feet (4') of a meter vault box.
      6.   Within twenty feet (20') of a stop or yield sign.
      7.   Within four feet (4') of a residential driveway.
      8.   Within six feet (6') of a commercial driveway.
      9.   Within ten feet (10') of an alleyway access.
      10.   Within twenty feet (20') of a streetlight standard.
      11.   Within thirty five feet (35') of any road intersection.
   (K)   Plant a tree within the "sight vision triangle" of controlled or
uncontrolled intersections. The "vision triangle" is defined as the triangular
area formed by intersecting streets and roads protected from vision obstruction
by provisions of Idaho Code or of this code.
   (L)   Not to replace a public tree, which was removed unless otherwise
authorized by the superintendent of parks and recreation.
   (M)   Plant a public tree that is smaller than one and one-half inch (11/2")
caliper for class I trees and two and one-half inch (21/2") caliper for class
II and class III trees. Class I trees are fifteen feet to thirty feet (15'–30')
in ultimate height and spread. Class II trees are thirty feet to sixty feet
(30'–60') in ultimate height and width. Class III trees are greater than sixty
feet (60') in ultimate height. Ultimate height is to be determined by reference
to the manual of woody landscape plants (Dirr, 1990) a copy of which is
maintained in the New Plymouth city hall.
   (N)   Plant trees within sidewalks without providing tree wells with a
minimum four feet by four feet (4' x 4') (16 square feet) opening or plant
trees in the right of way without providing protection of the tree base, such
as edging, mulch or arbor guards.
   (O)   Plant trees on public property which do not meet the minimum
acceptable standards as established by the American association of nurserymen
for stock true to name and type, which are bare- rooted, damaged, diseased or
disfigured, which are not hardy for the New Plymouth area or without removing
all nonbiodegradable wrapping around the root ball including twine, wire,
baskets, rope, treated or synthetic burlap.
   (P)   Plant any tree under a power line, telephone line or other utility
line when that tree will eventually, at or before its maximum anticipated or
projected growth, interfere with that line.
   (Q)   The following trees shall not be planted as street trees:
   Acer saccharum - Silver maple.
   Betula paperifera - Paperbark birch.
   Betula pendula - European white birch.
   Fraxinus excelsior - European ash.
   Ginkgo biloba - Ginkgo (female tree).
   Gledistia tricanthos - Thorned honey locust.
   Juglans nigra - Black walnut.
   Populus species - Poplars, aspen, cottonwood, etc.
   Robinia pseudoacacia - Black locust.
   Salix species - Willow species.
   Ulmus species - Elm species.
   (Ord. 260, 8-7-2000)
9-8-7: REMOVAL OF PUBLIC TREES 1 :
   (A)   Trees on public lands shall not be removed by private individuals
without the prior written authorization of the city council. The following
criteria will be considered:
      1.   Whether the tree is sufficiently diseased or is an alternate host of
an injurious disease.
      2.   Whether the tree is harboring injurious insects or pathogens and may
cause significant potential danger to the Payette community forest.
      3.   The tree is dead or nearly dead and/or constitutes a public safety
hazard.
      4.   The tree interferes with overhead utility lines and creates an
irresolvable public safety hazard.
      5.   Any other criteria deemed to be in the public interest. (Ord. 260,
8-7-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 9-3-3 of this title.
9-8-8: RECOMMENDED PLANTINGS:
Any tree to be planted as a street tree should fit the definition of one of
three (3) tree classifications: class I, class II or class III as defined in
subsection
9-8-6(M) of this chapter. The spacing of trees should be in accordance with the
three (3) species size classes listed in subsection
9-8-6(M) as follows: class I, thirty feet (30'); class II, forty feet (40');
class III, fifty feet (50'). (Ord. 260, 8-7-2000)
9-8-9: CERTIFIED ARBORIST REQUIRED:
   (A)   When the pruning of trees on public property is undertaken by a person
other than an employee of the city, (including any person or business
performing tree care or pruning for a fee and/or compensation), such work shall
be done under the supervision of a person qualified as either a certified
arborist by the international society of arboriculture; certification, by NAA
(national arborist's association); or, an equivalent certification approved by
the Payette community forestry commission. Compliance with these standards
shall require that the certified arborist visit the site of the work to
prescribe the pruning to be done and to actively monitor the pruning operation.
   (B)   This requirement shall not prohibit an adjoining home or business
owner from carrying out minor pruning on public trees immediately adjoining
his/her property as long as such minor pruning does not alter the essential
shape of the tree or does not violate any of the specific prohibitions
established by this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business
or occupation of pruning, treating, or removing street trees or park trees
within the city without first obtaining liability insurance in the minimum
amounts of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for bodily injury and one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) property damage, for each occurrence.
Any such policy shall name the city as a person or party which shall be
indemnified and protected in the event the city is sued as a result of the
activities of the policy holder. (Ord. 260, 8-7-2000)
9-8-10: REMOVAL OF STUMPS:
When any public tree is removed, the stump shall be removed below the surface
of the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface
of the ground. (Ord. 260, 8-7-2000)
9-8-11: INTERFERENCE WITH CITY TREE COMMITTEE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
city tree committee, or any of its agents or members, while engaging in the
ordinary course of their duties, any planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning,
spraying or removing of any street trees or park trees. (Ord. 260, 8-7-2000)
9-8-12: REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL:
The city council shall have the right to review the acts and decisions of the
committee at any time. Any person may appeal from any decision of the committee
to the council who may hear the matter and make a final decision. The council
will consider public input on any policy decisions made by the committee. (Ord.
260, 8-7-2000)
9-8-13: PRUNING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
The city shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private property
when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street from a
streetlight, interferes with visibility along a street or at an intersection or
traffic- control device, encroaches upon a city right of way or interferes with
access to a fire hydrant. (Ord. 260, 8-7-2000)
9-8-14: REQUIRED CARE OF PRIVATE TREES:
Each landowner with private trees on his/her land is hereby legally responsible
to carry out the following duties concerning said trees:
   (A)   Maintain trees and shrubs on private lands so they will not endanger
the public or become hazardous to public rights of way, public utilities or
other public property.
   (B)   Control injurious pests by removing debris or trees harboring insects
or disease from their private real property or by using other legally approved
methods to eradicate tree-borne insects or disease. (Ord. 260, 8-7-2000)
9-8-15: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction may be punished by a fine of not
more than three hundred dollars ($300.00) or imprisonment of not more than six
(6) months in jail or by both a fine and imprisonment. Should any person be
found guilty in any court of competent jurisdiction or otherwise plead guilty
to an alleged violation hereof, the court may order restitution.
   (B)   The city may undertake civil action in a court of competent
jurisdiction to seek to enjoin conduct which violates the provisions of this
chapter, or to recover the reasonable costs of actions deemed necessary to
bring about compliance herewith. Said actions may also seek restitution for
damages and costs incurred to remedy the consequences of violation. (Ord. 260,
8-7-2000)
***** CHAPTER 9
STREET DEVELOPMENT COSTS *****
SECTION:
9-9-1: Cost Recovery
9-9-2: Certificate Of Completion
9-9-3: Presentation Of Affidavit Of Payment
9-9-4: Ineligibility For Permit Until Pro Rata Costs Are Paid
9-9-5: Duties Of City Clerk
9-9-6: Address Changes And Forfeiture
9-9-7: Systems Already Constructed
9-9-1: COST RECOVERY:
Any person who is required to develop a street as a condition of receiving a
building permit, subdivision approval or other development request, for a
period of fifteen (15) years after the completion of the street, shall be
allowed to recover a pro rata share of the cost of the street from any
landowner, builder or developer who obtains a building permit or who constructs
a structure upon lands which are served by and which abut upon the street.
(Ord. 272, 4-15-2002)
9-9-2: CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION:
Upon completion of the street, or upon completion of the development in which
the street is located, the developer of the street shall present the city
clerk, the city engineer or their designee, a certificate of completion. The
certificate shall set forth a description of the street, addresses of abutting
lots, the cost of the street and the cost per lot or the cost per frontage foot
and the names of the owners of adjoining lots who have participated in the cost
of the construction. In the event the city clerk, the city engineer or their
designee has not received the certificate of completion within ninety (90) days
after completion, the developer shall forfeit the ability to recover
development costs allowable under this chapter. (Ord. 272, 4-15-2002)
9-9-3: PRESENTATION OF AFFIDAVIT OF PAYMENT:
Any person or applicant attempting to obtain a building permit on a property
which abuts upon a city street which has been developed or improved by a prior
developer, shall present an affidavit that he has paid his pro rata share of
the cost of street development which is attributable to the lot or parcel upon
which he is seeking a building permit. The city engineer shall review the
affidavit and such other information as he may require and determine the
accuracy of the allocation of costs attributable to each abutting lot. The cost
of the engineer's review shall be paid by the developer. (Ord. 272, 4-15-2002)
9-9-4: INELIGIBILITY FOR PERMIT UNTIL PRO RATA COSTS ARE PAID:
An applicant for a building permit who is served by a street which abuts
against that applicant's lot, shall not be allowed a permit unless that person
shall present an affidavit from the original developer that he has paid his
share of the cost of street development which is attributable to the lot upon
which he is seeking a building permit. An applicant shall not be required to
submit an affidavit if more than fifteen (15) years has passed since the street
was built or if the name of the applicant is included in the original
certificate of completion. (Ord. 272, 4-15-2002)
9-9-5: DUTIES OF CITY CLERK:
If no affidavit of payment is filed with the application, the building official
shall not issue a building permit until the applicant has received a receipt of
payment of the pro rata cost from either the original developer, his assigns or
the city clerk. The city clerk shall inform the applicant of the last known
address of the original developer and the applicant shall endeavor to obtain
the required affidavit of payment from the developer. In the event, after ten
(10) days of receipt of the last known address of the original developer, the
applicant is unable to contact the developer and cannot obtain the required
affidavit of payment, the applicant can obtain a permit after the applicant
first pays to the city the pro rata cost for the property being developed.
(Ord. 272, 4-15-2002)
9-9-6: ADDRESS CHANGES AND FORFEITURE:
The original developer shall keep the city clerk informed of his address and of
any changes of address and it shall be the sole responsibility of the developer
to keep the city clerk informed of an address where applicants can contact him,
or where any funds collected can be forwarded. In the event the city is unable
to forward funds or in the event the developer does not claim any funds for a
period of one year, any funds collected from an applicant shall forfeit and
shall become a part of the city's capital improvement fund. (Ord. 272, 4-15-
2002)
9-9-7: SYSTEMS ALREADY CONSTRUCTED:
Persons having constructed streets after January 1, 1997, may file with the
city clerk a certificate of completion as provided in section
9-9-1 of this chapter and the provisions of this chapter for a building permit
shall be effective on those streets already constructed. (Ord. 272, 4-15-2002)
***** CHAPTER 10
PARKS *****
SECTION:
9-10-1: Short Title
9-10-2: Creation And Use
9-10-3: Hours Of Operation And Availability
9-10-4: Reservations And Special Events
9-10-5: Fees
9-10-6: Special Events
9-10-7: Prohibited Activities
9-10-8: Enforcement
9-10-9: Dogs
9-10-10: Disposing Of Trash Or Rubbish
9-10-11: Penalty
9-10-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter may be referred to as the PUBLIC PARKS ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF
NEW PLYMOUTH. (Ord. 390, 3-4-2019)
9-10-2: CREATION AND USE:
Parks owned by the City of New Plymouth are created and maintained for the
recreation of the public and the greatest possible use is encouraged, subject
only to such regulation as will preserve the parks for the purposes for which
they are laid out and the enjoyment, convenience, and safety of the public.
(Ord. 390, 3-4-2019)
9-10-3: HOURS OF OPERATION AND AVAILABILITY:
All parks shall be open to the public between the hours of five o'clock (5:00)
A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. seven (7) days a week and shall be closed
to the public between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and five o'clock
(5:00) A.M. seven (7) days a week; unless an exception is granted through
issuance of a special permit as provided in section
9-10-6 of this chapter.
The use of City parks, together with the improvements placed therein, such as
tables, benches, shelters or fireplaces shall be available on a "first come,
first served" basis unless a reservation or special permit has been issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 390, 3-4-2019)
9-10-4: RESERVATIONS AND SPECIAL EVENTS:
   (A)   Even though the City parks and the amenities placed therein are to be
used on a "first come, first served" basis, reservations in advance may be made
for any park or any portion of any park or any area where picnic tables,
benches or other improvements are provided.
   (B)   Reservations may be made by any party for any picnic shelter or
fireplace. All persons requesting advance reservation shall observe all
regulations and requirements that are applicable to parks. Such areas
designated as "reserved" shall remain reserved for the exclusive use of the
reservation holder during their reservation period.
   (C)   If persons using an area or facility have not reserved the time and
are using the area or facility at a time that has been reserved for another
person, they shall vacate the area or facility. If they refuse to vacate or
surrender the facility or area, they may be excluded from the park pursuant to
the authority granted in this chapter.
   (D)   No person shall fail or refuse to comply with lawful directions given
by law enforcement officers or public works employees who are assigned the
responsibility of regulating the activities in any park area. Failure to
observe such rules and regulations shall result in the immediate termination of
the advance reservation.
   (E)   No person shall remove tables from the reserved areas.
   (F)   It shall be the duty of the reservation holder to leave all areas or
facilities reserved for use in a condition identical to that when those
facilities were made available to the reservation holder for use.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave an un- extinguished fire
or to leave any trash in the nature of boxes, papers, cans, garbage, food,
bottles, wrappers or other refuse or waste. All garbage shall be placed in
provided garbage or trash receptacles. If no trash receptacles are available,
then refuse and trash shall be carried away from the park area.
   (H)   A permit shall be required for the conduct of a "special event" which
is defined as any event, which could reasonably be interpreted to cause
significant public impact via disturbance, crowd, traffic/parking or disruption
of the normal routine of the community or affected neighborhood. (Ord. 390, 3-
4-2019)
9-10-5: FEES:
   (A)   Any person requesting an advance reservation shall apply for the
reservation on a form provided by the City with the City Clerk and shall pay
the fees established by resolution of the City Council. If keys are issued and
are returned to the City Clerk or Public Works Supervisor and the area has been
cleaned to the condition it was in when the party reserving it took possession,
the resolution may provide that a portion of the fee may be returned to the
person making the reservation. (Ord. 390, 3-4-2019)
9-10-6: SPECIAL EVENTS:
   (A)   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person, persons,
corporation, or organization, to conduct a public or private special event in
City parks unless a special event permit has been obtained with the following
exceptions:
      1.   Any event by the City of New Plymouth when acting within the scope
of its functions, or an event sponsored in whole or in part by the City of New
Plymouth.
      2.   Weddings, purely social parties, or similar family events, religious
services, funerals and the like.
   (B)   Permit Application: Any person requesting a permit for the conduct of
a "special event" shall apply for the permit on a form provided by the City
with the City Clerk and shall pay in advance, a permit application fee
established by resolution of the Council, which shall be non-refundable. In
addition, such person shall be required to pay a refundable deposit to insure
return of the park and facilities in the same condition as before the event and
to provide liability insurance in an amount to be determined by the City based
upon the nature of the "special event".
The application for such permit shall be filed with City Clerk not less than
two (2) weeks prior to the first day upon which the event is intended to occur
and shall be in such form and manner as provided by the City and will include
the following information:
      1.   The name and contact information of the event organizer(s).
      2.   The name and address of the person, persons, corporations or
associations sponsoring the activity.
      3.   The day and hours for which the permit is desired.
      4.   The park or portion thereof for which the permit is desired.
      5.   The specific designated uses that are requested requiring a permit.
      6.   Expected attendance and if event will be ticketed.
      7.   Detailed plan for trash collection and removal during and after the
event.
      8.   Contingency plan detailing how emergency responders will be notified
and event site modified if anticipated number of participants or attendees
exceeds the estimated attendance number.
      9.   If alcohol sales will be part of the event, a detailed alcohol plan
that addresses how applicant will avoid service of minors.
      10.   Any other information reasonably necessary for a determination as
to whether a permit should be issued hereunder.
   (C)   Additional Permits Necessary: Additional permits or applications may
be required for submission with a Special Event Application, including but not
limited to: catering permit; alcohol beverage license; Sales Tax permit; and/or
sign permit.
   (D)   Approval Standards And Conditions Of Permit Issuance: If the applicant
meets the following criteria:
      1.   The conduct of the special event will not pose an unreasonable
safety or traffic impact or impede in any substantial way public safety
services or the distribution of those services in emergency response
situations.
      2.   The conduct of the special event will not have a significant adverse
environmental impact or in any substantial way constitute a disturbance of the
peace of the community or unduly endanger the health, safety and welfare of the
public.
      3.   Emergency services, such as sheriff, fire, and ambulance services
are available to serve the event or can be accommodated for privately.
      4.   The conduct of the special event will comply with all standards
imposed on it by all other applicable regulatory agencies and emergency service
providers.
      5.   The event is in substantial conformance with all other relevant
standards, codes, and ordinances applicable to the event.
      6.   The conduct of the special event will not substantially interrupt
the safe and orderly movement of traffic contiguous to its venue.
      7.   The conduct of the special event is not reasonably likely to cause
injury to persons or property, to provoke disorderly conduct or create an undue
disturbance.
      8.   The special event is not for an unlawful purpose.
   (E)   Conditions Of Issuance:
      1.   Reasonable conditions may be imposed concerning the time, duration
and place of such event; the area and manner of conducting such an event; the
maximum number of participants or spectators; the regulation of traffic;
reasonable sound levels; whether alcoholic beverages may be consumed, sold or
permitted at the event site as otherwise authorized by law; a requirement to
submit evidence of liability insurance and listing the City as an additional
insured and such other requirements as the City may find reasonable and
necessary for the protection of persons and property.
      2.   All permits issued pursuant to this chapter are nontransferable and
expire at the completion of the given special event.
      3.   The applicant shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the City,
its officers, agents and employees from any and all demands, claims or
liability of any nature caused by or arising out of or connected with the
permitted special event.
   (F)   Fines, Fees: Any person, persons, or organization, hereafter referred
to as organizer, orchestrating a special event must promptly reimburse the City
for any and all damage of any kind to any public property of the City which may
result from the special event on public property, and any organizer will not
hold liable the City for or in account of any loss or damage to property owned
by, or controlled by the organizer, or for or on account of any loss or damage
sustained by the organizer as a result of injuries to the employees or agents
of the organizer. (Ord. 390, 3-4-2019)
9-10-7: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
   (A)   Motor Vehicles: No cars, four-wheelers, three-wheelers, motorcycles or
motor vehicles of any kind shall be driven or parked upon the sidewalks or
within the boundaries of any park in the City, except in those areas which have
been surfaced for vehicular traffic or which have been designated by the City
for motorized transportation. This rule shall not prohibit the use of ADA
compliant wheelchairs that are motorized and other similar accessibility
enhancing devices by disabled individuals or park maintenance vehicles.
Exception would be special event permit approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Alcoholic Beverages:
      1.   Alcoholic beverages other than beer and wine are prohibited.
Consumption of alcoholic beverages including beer and wine are prohibited in
the following areas:
         (a)   Any public street, alley, sidewalk, parking lot, restroom,
pathway and within twenty five feet (25') of playground or skate park.
      2.   It shall be unlawful to bring upon, to possess or consume in a park
the contents of a container of an alcoholic beverage that contains or has
capacity of two (2) or more gallons.
      3.   No sales of beer and/or wine shall be conducted except with permits
associated with a special event permit approved by the City Council.
   (C)   Drugs:
      1.   No person shall commit any of the following acts in a park:
         (a)   Sell, distribute, make available or offer to provide a
controlled substance or prescription drug to another.
         (b)   Package, possess or store a controlled substance.
         (c)   Transport a controlled substance or materials intended to be
used in the packaging of a controlled substance.
         (d)   Solicit another to provide, make available, sell or distribute a
controlled substance or prescription drug to any person.
      2.   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the possession of medications
prescribed to the person or to a person under that person's care, if and under
such conditions as possession of such substance is otherwise lawful.
   (D)   Sale Of Food Or Goods: No person shall sell any goods, food or food
products of any kind in any park except when associated with a special event
permit approved by the City Council.
   (E)   Camping: No person shall camp, lodge, make a fire or pitch a tent,
lean to, tarpaulin or any other type of camping equipment in parks.
   (F)   Use Of Certain Devices Or Equipment:
      1.   No person shall putt, drive, strike, throw or otherwise propel a
golf ball in any park area in the City.
      2.   The use of firearms and/or fireworks shall be and is hereby
prohibited in parks.
      3.   No person shall play any games or activities involving thrown, or
otherwise propelled, injurious objects such as stones, arrows, javelins or
spears.
      4.   No person shall use any slingshot, javelin, shotput, discus, golf
equipment or archery equipment, or any device capable of launching a
projectile, in or upon in any park, except in areas specifically designated or
provided for that particular use.
   (G)   Glass Containers: It is prohibited for any person to throw, carry or
have in their possession any glass beverage container on park grounds.
   (H)   Advertising Or Signage In Parks:
      1.   No person shall paste, glue, tack or otherwise post any signs,
plaques, advertisements or inscriptions whatsoever in any park, including
adjacent rights-of-way (sidewalks, parking lots, etc.).
      2.   Plaques, tablets or signs, of a size, design and location approved
by the Public Works Supervisor recognizing or acknowledging donations or
contributions to any park or to facilities therein may be exempt.
   (I)   Destruction Of Park Property:
      1.   No person shall mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with, or
displace or remove any building, tables, benches, fixtures, fireplaces, grills,
railings, playground equipment, paving or paving material, water lines or other
utilities, parts or appurtenances whatsoever, either real or personal, or have
in his possession any of the foregoing things or objects, or any part thereof.
      2.   No person shall despoil, litter, deface, or create an unsanitary
condition in a restroom or washroom. No person over the age of six (6) years
shall use the park restrooms and washrooms designated for the opposite sex.
Both sex and unisex bathrooms shall be excluded from this provision.
      3.   No person shall damage, cut, carve, transplant, or remove any tree
or plant, or injure the bark, or pick the flowers or seeds, of any tree, fruit
or plant. Nor shall any person attach any rope, wire or other contrivance to
any tree or plant. No person shall dig in or otherwise disturb grass areas or
in any other way injure or impair the natural beauty or usefulness of any area,
unless they have first received approval from the Public Works Supervisor.
   (J)   Unlawful Urination Or Defecation: No person shall urinate or defecate
in any park except in a convenience station designed for that purpose; or blow,
spread, or place any nasal or other bodily discharge; or spit, urinate, or
defecate on the floors, walls, partitions, furniture, fittings, or any portion
of any public convenience station or in any place in such station, excepting
directly into the particular fixture provided for that purpose; or place any
bottle, can, cloth, rag, or metal, wood, or stone substance in any of the
plumbing fixtures in any such station.
   (K)   Metal Detecting/Worm Gathering: It is prohibited for any person to
use, place or attempt to place, an electric probe or any similar device, for
the purpose of detecting metal or collecting worms in any park.
   (L)   Obscene Language: While in a park, no person shall use obscene,
abusive or threatening language; use or threaten any act of violence; engage in
riotous or disorderly conduct.
   (M)   Amplification Devices: While in a park, no person shall use a radio,
loudspeaker, CD player, tape player, or any other amplification device, which
can be heard at a distance of more than fifty feet (50') from the source of the
amplified sound.
   (N)   Fire: No person shall start, ignite, maintain or assist in starting,
igniting or maintaining a fire, except in a grill or fireplace, which is
attended at all times. All fires that are properly maintained shall be
extinguished upon leaving the park.
   (O)   Interference With Others: No person shall engage in any conduct, which
interferes with another person's reasonable use and peaceful enjoyment of a
park.
   (P)   Admission Fees For Events: No group or event shall be allowed to
charge fees of any sort for events held within parks without first obtaining a
special event permit upon approval of the City Council.
   (Q)   Exiting Park: No person shall refuse to leave a park when directed to
do so by a police officer or a member of the Public Works Department when that
person has engaged in any activity prohibited by this chapter. Any person
ejected from a park shall leave promptly and peaceably and shall not return to
the park for any reason on the same calendar day of his ejection.
   (R)   Pathways And Footpaths: No person shall ride or drive any horse or
other animals, or propel any vehicle on pathways/footpaths unless authorized by
the City. (Ord. 390, 3-4-2019)
9-10-8: ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   Authority: A police officer, the Public Works Supervisor or his
designee shall have the authority to eject from the park any person who
violates any portion of this chapter or title. (Ord. 390, 3-4-2019)
9-10-9: DOGS:
   (A)   Dogs Running At Large Prohibited: Any person who owns, harbors or has
in his control a dog, whether the dog is licensed or not, in any park, is
liable for the actions of the dog.
   (B)   Cleaning After Dog: No person, owning, harboring, controlling or
keeping any dog shall permit the dog to deposit fecal matter on any property
without the owner or custodian immediately bagging and removing the material
and disposing of it in the proper trash receptacles. (Ord. 390, 3-4-2019)
9-10-10: DISPOSING OF TRASH OR RUBBISH:
No person shall enter any park with garbage, or other rubbish or refuse or
debris that has originated from outside the park, for the purpose of disposing
of any rubbish, refuse, or debris in the park. This shall not apply to the
disposal, in receptacles provided for that purpose, of garbage or refuse that
results from the normal use of a park for recreational or other lawful
purposes. (Ord. 390, 3-4-2019)
9-10-11: PENALTY:
In addition to any penalty imposed by the laws of the State of Idaho, violation
of any provision of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor. (Ord. 390, 3-
4-2019)
TITLE X
TRAFFIC
***** CHAPTER 1
MOTOR VEHICLE LAWS *****
SECTION:
10-1-1: Intent
10-1-2: Adoption
10-1-3: Copies On File
10-1-4: Speed Regulations
10-1-5: Traffic-Control Devices
10-1-1: INTENT:
It is hereby declared to be the intent of the Governing Body of the City to aid
and assist by whatever means possible, for the utmost consistency in traffic
regulation among and between agencies of Idaho having such jurisdiction. Toward
that end, adoption of the Idaho Motor Vehicle Laws by the cities of Idaho is a
necessary means of assuring maximum uniformity within the State. (Ord. 97, 1-
11-1971, eff. 1-21-1971)
10-1-2: ADOPTION:
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing rules and regulations
for the use of all streets and public thoroughfares of the City that certain
code, identified as the 1969 Revised Edition, Idaho Motor Vehicle Laws, more
particularly title 49, Idaho Code, published by the Department of Law
Enforcement, and as the same may hereafter be revised by the Idaho Legislature,
or amended by the Governing Body, and the same is hereby adopted and
incorporated as an ordinance of the City as fully as though set forth at length
herein. (Ord. 97, 1-11-1971, eff. 1-21-1971)
10-1-3: COPIES ON FILE:
Three (3) copies of the Idaho Motor Vehicle Laws, together with any revisions
or amendments, duly certified by the City Clerk, shall be kept on file in his/
her office for use and examination of and by the public. (Ord. 97, 1-11-1971,
eff. 1-2-1971)
10-1-4: SPEED REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Any person driving a vehicle in the City shall drive the same at a
careful and prudent speed not greater than is reasonable and proper, having due
regard to the traffic, surface and width of the street or alley and of any
other conditions then existing, and no person shall drive any vehicle upon a
street or alley at such a speed as to endanger the life, limb or property of
any person.
   (B)   Subject to the provisions of subsection (A) of this Section and except
in those instances where a lower speed is specified in this Chapter, it shall
be prima facie lawful for the driver of a vehicle to drive the same at a speed
not exceeding the following, except in any case when such speed would be
unsafe:
      1.   Twenty five (25) miles per hour on all streets in said City unless a
different speed is fixed by local authorities and duly posted.
It shall be prima facie unlawful for any person to exceed any of the foregoing
speed limitations. In every charge of violation of this Section the complaint,
also the warrant or notice to appeal, shall specify the speed at which the
defendant is alleged to have driven, also the speed which this Section declares
shall be prima facie lawful at the time and place of such alleged violation.
(Ord. 111, 2-3-1975, eff. 2-13-1975)
10-1-5: TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES:
   (A)   The Chief of Police, under the direction of the City Council, shall
place and maintain traffic-control signs, signals and devices to make effective
the traffic regulations of the City. The signs, signals and devices may be
placed as the City Council deems necessary. Said signs shall establish speed
restrictions, time restrictions on parking, where U-turns are prohibited, or
where parking is prohibited to eliminate interference with emergency vehicles.
   (B)   All signs and signals required by this Section for a particular
purpose shall so far as practical be uniform as to type and location throughout
the City. All traffic-control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Title shall be official traffic-control devices and shall
establish traffic regulations where posted.
   (C)   Unless a different speed is fixed by local authorities and duly posted
the following speed restrictions shall apply:
      1.   Twenty (20) miles per hour within a school zone, or when passing a
school when children are present.
      2.   Twenty five (25) miles per hour in a residential district and in
public parks.
      3.   Twenty five (25) miles per hour on through highways and all other
conditions not covered in this subsection.
   (D)   It is unlawful and an infraction for any person to violate any of the
restrictions set forth in this Section. It shall be unlawful to execute a U-
turn on any street in any block where there is posted a "no U-turn" sign. (Ord.
221, 6-19-1995)
***** CHAPTER 2
BICYCLES *****
SECTION:
10-2-1 through 10-2-18: (Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-90)
10-2-19: Parking
10-2-20: Riding on Sidewalks
10-2-21: Lamps and Other Equipment
10-2-1 through 10-2-18: (Rep. by Ord. 196, 4-2-90)
10-2-19: PARKING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to park a bicycle in such a manner as to
interfere or obstruct pedestrian traffic.
10-2-20: RIDING ON SIDEWALKS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk
within a business district.
   (B)   The Clerk is authorized to erect signs on any sidewalk or roadway
prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon and when such signs are in place it
shall be unlawful for any person to disobey the same.
10-2-21: LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT:
   (A)   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
five hundred feet (500') to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a
type which shall be visible from all distances from fifty feet (50') to three
hundred feet (300') to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper beams of
head lamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a
distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear may be used in addition to the
red reflector.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bicycle unless it is
equipped with a bell or other device capable of giving a signal audible for a
distance of at least one hundred feet (100'), except that a bicycle shall not
be equipped with nor shall any person use upon a bicycle any siren or whistle.
   (C)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheels skid on dry, level, clean pavement. (1960
Code; Renumbered Ord. 97; 1-11-71; Eff. 1-2-71)
TITLE XI
ZONING
***** CHAPTER 1
THE ZONING ACT *****
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Authority And Applicability
11-1-3: Purpose
11-1-4: Jurisdiction
11-1-5: Provision of Title Declared to be Minimum Requirements
11-1-6: Combining of Permits
11-1-7: Severability Clause
11-1-8: Repeal of Conflicting Ordinances
11-1-9: Amendment
11-1-10: Failure to Act
11-1-11: Application Required
11-1-12: Idaho Code Requirements
11-1-13: Ambiguity
11-1-14: Zoning Districts
11-1-15: Boundaries Established
11-1-1: TITLE:
This Title shall be known as the Zoning Code of the City of New Plymouth,
County of Payette, State of Idaho. This Title shall consist of the text herein
contained, as may be amended from time to time, as well as the official zoning
map adopted by the Mayor and City Council, as may be amended from time to time,
which map shall be on file in the office of the City Clerk. (Ord. 435, 3-17-
2026)
11-1-2: AUTHORITY AND APPLICABILITY:
   (A)   Authority: This Title is adopted pursuant to the authority granted by
Title 67, chapter 65 of the Idaho Code and article 12, section 2 of the Idaho
Constitution, as amended or subsequently modified.
   (B)   Applicability: The regulations of this Title shall apply and govern
development and use of all properties within the corporate limits of the City
of New Plymouth.
      1.   No person or public agency shall construct, alter, move, or change
the use of a structure or undertake any development unless:
         (a)   The proposed use, structure, or division of property complies
with this Title and Title XII, New Plymouth City Code.
         (b)   Any required approval is first obtained as provided by chapter
18 "Administration" of this Title, and any applicable conditions of approval
are met.
      2.   Nothing in this Title shall eliminate the need for obtaining any
other required permits, including but not limited to, building permits,
plumbing, electrical or mechanical permits, grading permits, or any permit,
approval, or entitlement required by other titles of this code, other political
subdivisions of the State of Idaho, or agencies of the State of Idaho.
      3.   All properties in the New Plymouth City limits shall comply with the
regulations of this Title unless otherwise preempted by federal statute or
state law.
      4.   The prosecution of violations that occurred under previous land use
regulations and that remain a violation under this Title shall continue until
resolved.
(Ord. 435, 3-17-2026)
11-1-3: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this title is to establish standards and regulations to govern
the use of land and structures in the City and for review and approval of all
proposed development of real property in the City, and to provide a development
review process that will be comprehensive, consistent, and efficient in the
implementation of the Comprehensive Plan and any applicable policies, master
plans, or area plans. This title is specifically intended to:
   (A)   Carry out the intent and purposes of the "Local Land Use Planning
Act." I.C. §§ 67-6501 et seq., as amended.
   (B)   Conserve and promote the public health, safety and general welfare of
present and future residents.
   (C)   Protect property rights and enhance property values.
   (D)   Carry out the policies of the Comprehensive Plan by classifying and
regulating the uses of property and structures within the incorporated areas of
the City of New Plymouth and planning for future growth and land use patterns
within the area of city impact and planning boundaries.
   (E)   Establish districts within the City of New Plymouth in accord with the
adopted Comprehensive Plan and in conformance with I.C. § 67-6511.
   (F)   Ensure that the important environmental features of the State and
localities are protected and enhanced.
   (G)   Aid in the harmonious. orderly. progressive development of the City
while ensuring satisfactory interrelationships of residential, commercial,
industrial, agricultural, recreational, and open space areas of the City
through the regulation of land uses within each zoning district, bulk and
dimensional standards, landscaping and buffering, and conformance with the
City's Comprehensive Plan.
   (H)   Encourage urban and urban-type development within incorporated areas.
by ensuring that land densities increase the closer to the center of the City
and along major transportation corridors. with densities decreasing the closer
to the City's planning boundary. This is accomplished through conformance with
the Comprehensive Plan and through the regulation of land uses and densities
based on zoning district.
   (I)   Ensure the intensity of land uses are appropriate and any negative
impacts are mitigated.
   (J)   Ensure the use of land and properties is in conformance with city
codes. policies. laws. and with the City's Comprehensive Plan.
   (K)   Provide standards for the orderly growth and development of the City
of New Plymouth as required by I.C. § 67-6511. Such standards include, but are
not limited to, those regulating:
      1.   The height, number of stories, massing and scaling, architectural
design, setbacks, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, and
location, placement and orientation of structures.
      2.   The required lot size, lot frontage, parking, pedestrian amenities,
site improvements, open space, landscaping, and site design of all properties.
      3.   The use, intensity, and density of all structures, properties, and
developments.
   (L)   Secure safety from fire and provide adequate open spaces for light and
air.
   (M)   Protect fish, wildlife and recreation resources.
   (N)   Avoid undue water and air pollution.
   (O)   Allow local school districts to participate in the community planning
and development process to address public school needs and impacts on an
ongoing basis.
   (P)   Promote implementation of the comprehensive plan.
   (Q)   Stabilize expectations regarding the future development of the City,
thereby providing a basis for wise decisions with respect to such development.
   (R)   Protect public airports as essential community facilities that provide
safe transportation alternatives and contribute to the economy of the City.
(Ord. 432, 12-1-2025)
11-1-4: JURISDICTION:
This Title applies to the zoning and uses of land within the incorporated area
of the City. (Ord. 432, 12-1-2025)
11-1-5: PROVISIONS OF TITLE DECLARED TO BE MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this Title are
minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety
and the general welfare. Whenever the requirements of this Title may be
exercised concurrently with the requirements of any other lawfully adopted
rules, regulations, ordinances or resolutions, the ordinance, rule, regulation
or resolution imposing the most restrictive standard shall govern.
11-1-6: COMBINING OF PERMITS:
Prior to issuing any permits, the City Council, Commission or Administrator
will require an applicant to have all permits required by other affected
departments, authorities or regulatory agencies.
11-1-7: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
Should any section, chapter, provision or provisions of this Title be declared
by the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect
the validity of this Title as a whole or any part thereof other than the part
so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
11-1-8: REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES:
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with this Title or
inconsistent with the provisions of this Title are hereby repealed to the
extent necessary to give this Title full force and effect.
11-1-9: AMENDMENT:
This Title may be amended by following the notice and hearing provisions set
forth in section 67-6509, Idaho Code.
11-1-10: FAILURE TO ACT:
On any matter or application presented wherein any time limit is set in which
the Board, Commission or Administrator is required to take any action, should
the Board, Commission or Administrator fail to act within the required time
period, on the last day allowed for action, any request for action is denied.
Any Board or Commission acting pursuant to this Section will have fifteen (15)
days after denial to comply with section 67-6519, Idaho Code.
11-1-11: APPLICATION REQUIRED:
No matter will be considered or acted upon until an application approved by the
Administrator is properly submitted. In the event an applicant or Commission,
Board or Administrator finds or desires that additional information is needed
or that additional studies are required, any time limitations imposed upon the
Commission, Board or Administrator are suspended until the studies are
completed.
11-1-12: IDAHO CODE REQUIREMENTS:
In all matters where written notice or a hearing is required, the Commission or
Board will comply with the writing and recording requirements of sections 67-
6535 and 67-6536, Idaho Code.
11-1-13: AMBIGUITY:
In the event of any ambiguity in the words contained in this Title, it shall be
interpreted and construed in favor of the purposes of this Title.
11-1-14: ZONING DISTRICTS:
For the purpose of this Title the Municipality shall be and is hereby divided
into zoning districts as follows:
   ZONE "A"   Residence Zone
   ZONE "B"   Residence Zone
   ZONE "C"   Residence Zone
   ZONE "D"   Commercial Zone
   ZONE "E"   Industrial Zone
   ZONE "T"   Mobile Home Zone
   ZONE "R"   Agricultural Zone
11-1-15: BOUNDARIES ESTABLISHED:
The boundaries of the zones as designated by this Title shall be established
and clearly marked upon the Zoning Map as adopted in this Title, provided, that
public hearings shall be held by the governing body before establishment and
approval of said zones. (Ord., 5-7-84)
***** CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS *****
SECTION:
11-2-1: Interpretation of Terms or Words
11-2-2: Meaning of Terms or Words
11-2-1: INTERPRETATION OF TERMS OR WORDS:
For the purpose of this Title certain terms or words used herein shall be
interpreted as follows, and words not defined herein shall be given the meaning
ordinarily applied to such words:
   (A)   The word "person" includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company, political subdivision or corporation, as well as
an individual;
   (B)   The present tense includes the future tense, the singular number
includes the plural and the plural number includes the singular; the female
gender includes the neuter and male, the male gender includes the female and
neuter and the neuter includes the male and female;
   (C)   The word "shall" is a mandatory requirement, the word "may" is
permissive usage and the word "should" is a preferred usage;
   (D)   The words "used" or "occupied" include the words "intended, designed
or arranged to be used or occupied";
   (E)   A word or term which is not specifically defined by this Ordinance has
its common ordinary meaning as indicated by the context in which it is used.
11-2-2: MEANING OF TERMS OR WORDS:
ACCESSORY BUILDING USE: A subordinate building or use which is located on the
same lot on which the main building or use is situated and which is reasonably
necessary and incidental to the conduct of the primary use of such building or
to the main use.
ACREAGE: Any tract or parcel of land which has not been subdivided or platted.
ALLEY: A street or way shown on the official plat of the Municipality of its
additions and designated thereon as an alley.
APARTMENT: A room or suite of rooms in a multiple-family structure, which is
arranged, designed, used or intended to be used as a housekeeping unit for a
single family.
AUTOMOBILE: A motor vehicle.
AUTOMOBILE, MOTOR VEHICLE or EQUIPMENT REPAIR: The repair, rebuilding or
reconditioning of motor vehicles or equipment repair or parts thereof,
including collision service painting and steam cleaning of vehicles.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: An establishment where automotive fuels are sold at
retail; however, where the sale of such is only incidental the establishment or
premises shall be classified as a public garage.
AUTOMOTIVE, MOBILE HOME, TRAVEL TRAILER and FARM IMPLEMENT SALES: The sale or
rental of new and used motor homes, motor vehicles, travel trailers or farm
implements, but not including repair work except incidental warranty repair of
same, to be displayed and sold on the premises.
AUTOMOTIVE, WRECKING YARD: Any use of premises, excluding fully enclosed
buildings, whereon more than two motor vehicles not in operating condition are
standing sixty (60) days or more on which such used motor vehicles or parts
thereof, are dismantled or stored.
BASEMENT: A story partially or wholly underground. Where more than one-half (1/
2) of its height is above the average level of the adjoining ground, a basement
shall be counted as a story for purpose of height measurement.
BILLBOARD: Any structure or portion thereof upon which are placed signs or
advertisements used as an outdoor display. This definition does not include any
bulletin boards used to display official court or public office notices, or a
sign advertising the sale or lease of the premises on which the sign is
located.
BOARDING HOUSE: A building other than a hotel or restaurant, where meals are
provided for compensation for four (4) or more persons, but not exceeding
twelve (12) persons.
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, and
designed or intended for the shelter, support, enclosure or protection of
persons, animals or chattels.
BUILDING AREA: The building area of a lot is the space remaining after
adherence to the minimum open space requirements of this Title.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distances measured from the sidewalk level or its
equivalent established grade opposite the middle of the front of the building
to the highest point of the roof in the case of a flat roof; to the deck line
of a mansard roof; and to mean height level between eaves and ridge of a gable,
hip or gambrel roof; provided, that where buildings are set back from the
street line, the height of the building may be measured from the average
elevation of the finished lot grade at the front of the building.
BUILDING LINE: For the purpose of this Title the building line is the same as a
front yard set back line.
CAR PORT: A structure attached or made a part of the main structure which is
open to the weather on at least two (2) sides, intended for the use of
sheltering not more than two (2) motor driven vehicles.
COMMISSION: The duly appointed Zoning Commission or the City Council, if no
appointment has been made.
CONDITIONAL USE: A nonprincipal use permitted within a district, requiring a
permit and approval of the City.
COURT: An open unoccupied space, other than a yard, on the same lot with a
building and bounded on two (2) or more sides by such building.
CURB GRADE: The established elevation of the curb measured at the center of the
front of a building. Where no curb grade has been established, the governing
body shall establish such curb level or its equivalent for the purpose of this
Title.
DISTRICT: A section or sections of the incorporated area of the
Municipality for which the regulations and provisions governing the use of
buildings and land are uniform for each class of use permitted therein.
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof, but not an automobile house trailer,
designed exclusively for residential occupancy, including one family, two (2)
family and multiple dwellings, but not including hotels, boarding and lodging
houses.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE: A building or portion thereof designed for occupancy by
three (3) or more families living independently of each other.
DWELLING, ONE FAMILY: A detached building designed exclusively for occupancy by
one family.
DWELLING, ROW: A row of three (3) to six (6) attached one family dwelling, not
more than two and one-half (21/2) stories in height, nor more than two (2)
rooms deep.
DWELLING, TWO (2) FAMILY: A building designed exclusively for occupancy by two
(2) families living independently of each other.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms in a dwelling or apartment hotel designed
primarily for occupancy by one family for living or sleeping purposes.
ESTABLISHED GRADE: The sidewalk line grade at the front lot line as established
by the Engineer.
FAMILY: An individual or two (2) or more persons related by blood or marriage
or a group of not more than five (5) persons living together as a single
housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit.
FRONTAGE: All property on one side of a street between two (2) intersecting
streets, or natural barriers.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building for the storage of not more than three
(3) motor driven vehicles of which not more than one shall be a commercial
vehicle of not more than two (2) ton capacity.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: A building other than a private garage used for the care,
repair or equipment of automobiles, or for vehicles parked or stored for
remuneration, hire or sale.
GUESTHOUSE: A structure for human habitation, containing one or more rooms with
bath and toilet facilities, but not including a kitchen or facilities which
would provide a complete housekeeping unit.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any use customarily conducted entirely within the dwelling and
carried on by the inhabitants thereof, which use is clearly incidental and
secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes and does not change
the character thereof; and provided that no article is sold or offered for sale
except as may be produced on the premises by members of the immediate family.
Clinics, doctor's offices, hospitals, barber shops, beauty parlors, dress
shops, millinery shops, real estate offices, tea rooms, tourist homes, animal
hospitals and kennels, among others shall not be deemed to be home occupation.
HOSPITAL OR SANITARIUM: An institution open to the public, in which sick
patients or injured persons are given medical or surgical care; or for the care
of contagious diseases or incurable patients.
HOTEL: A building designed for occupancy as the more or less temporary abiding
place of individuals who are lodged with or without meals, in which there are
six (6) or more guestrooms, and in which no provisions are made for cooking in
any individual room or suite.
INSTITUTION: A building occupied by a nonprofit corporation or a nonprofit
establishment for public or semipublic use.
KENNEL: Any lot or premises on which four (4) or more dogs, at least four (4)
months of age, are kept.
LABORATORY: A place devoted to experimental study such as testing and
analyzing. Manufacturing of a product is not to be permitted within this
definition.
LOADING SPACE: An off street space or area on the same lot with a building or
contiguous to a group of buildings for the temporary parking of a commercial
vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials and which abuts
upon a street, alley or other appropriate means of access.
LODGING HOUSE: A building with not more than five (5) guestrooms where lodging
is provided for compensation pursuant to previous arrangements, but not open to
public or transients.
LOT: A parcel or plot of land occupied or suitable for occupancy by one main
building or use, with accessory buildings, including the open spaces required
by this title, and having its principal frontage upon a public street or
highway.
LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the intersection of two (2) or more streets.
LOT DEPTH: The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines.
LOT FRONTAGE: The front of a lot shall be that boundary of a lot along a public
street; and for a corner lot the front shall be the shorter lot boundary along
a street.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT WIDTH: The horizontal distance between the side lot lines.
MINISTORAGE: Any number of individual storage units, not exceeding five hundred
(500) square feet each, whether standing alone or separated from other similar
units by a common wall, which units are intended to be rented to the public on
an individual basis and which are designed primarily for storage of household
or personal belongings but not for human habitation. Certain areas of a
ministorage facility may be open or covered with a roof only for storage of
boats or recreational vehicles. Any and all small items shall be stored inside
and no ministorage shall become a junkyard, a dismantling yard, or an area
where trash, garbage, debris or junk is allowed to accumulate. All ministorages
shall be completely fenced at a minimum with an eight foot (8') high, chainlink
fence.
MOBILE HOME: A detached single-family dwelling unit with all of the following
characteristics:
   (A)   Designed for long term occupancy and containing sleeping
accommodations, a flush toilet, a tub or shower bath and kitchen facilities
with plumbing and electrical connections provided for attachment to outside
systems;
   (B)   Designed to be transported after fabrication on its own wheels, or a
flatbed or other trailers or detached wheels;
   (C)   Arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling, usually
including major appliances and furniture, and ready for occupancy except for
minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, such as location on
foundation supports, connection to utilities and the like.
MOBILE HOME COURT: Any site or tract of land whereupon two (2) or more mobile
homes or travel trailers are placed, located and maintained for dwelling
purposes on a temporary basis.
MOBILE HOME PARK: Any site or tract of land upon which two (2) or more mobile
homes are parked on a permanent or semipermanent basis, either free of charge
or for revenue purposes; including any roadway, building, structure, vehicle or
enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the facilities of such park.
MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: Any parcel of land which may be divided or proposed to
be divided in accordance with the definition of "subdivision", whereupon one or
more mobile homes shall be placed.
MODULAR HOME: A dwelling unit which is fabricated in one or more sections at a
location other than the home site, by assembly line production techniques or by
other construction methods unique to an off site manufacturing process. The
modular home shall be distinguished from a mobile home in the foundation
system. A modular home shall be constructed so the foundation support runs
along the outer perimeter of the structure. A mobile home shall be mounted on a
chassis running the length of the unit with the outer walls cantilevered from
the chassis or supported by the chassis rather than by a foundation running
along the perimeter of the unit.
NONCONFORMING USE: Any building structure or land lawfully occupied by a use or
lawful situation which does not conform to the regulations of this title.
NURSING HOME OR REST HOME: A private hospital for the care of children, or the
aged or infirmed or a place of rest for those suffering bodily disorders, but
not including facilities for the treatment of sickness or injuries or for
surgical care.
PARKING AREA, PRIVATE: An open area for the parking of privately owned
automobiles and not for public use.
PARKING AREA, PUBLIC: An open area, other than a street, used for the temporary
parking of more than four (4) automobiles and available for public use whether
free, for compensation or as an accommodation for clients or customers.
PARKING SPACE: An area, enclosed or unenclosed, which has adequate access to a
public street or alley, sufficient in size to store one automobile.
PERMIT: A document issued by the administrator authorizing the use of land and
structures, and the characteristics of the uses.
PORCH: A roofed entrance to a building, projecting out from the wall or walls
of the main structure and commonly open in part to the weather.
SIGNS, OUTDOOR ADVERTISING: A sign of any type or material, installed any place
for outdoor advertising purposes.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the floor next above it or if there be no floor above it, then
the space between such floor and the ceiling next above.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires location
on the ground or attachment to something having a fixed location on the ground.
Among other things, structures include, but are not limited to, buildings,
mobile homes, walls, fences and billboards. "Structure" shall include the word
"building"; and the word lot shall include the word "plot".
STRUCTURE ALTERATIONS: Any change which would prolong the life of the
supporting members of a building or structure, such as bearing walls, columns,
beams or girders.
TERRACE, OPEN: A level and rather narrow plain or platform, which for purposes
of this title is located adjacent to one or more faces of the main structure
and which is constructed not more than four feet (4') in height above the
average level of the adjoining ground.
TOURIST COURT: A group of attached or detached buildings, including auto
courts, motels or motor lodges, containing individual sleeping or living units,
designed for or used by tourists or transients, with garage attached or parking
space conveniently located to each unit.
TOURIST HOME: A dwelling in which overnight accommodations are provided or
offered for transient guests.
TRAILER CAMP, AUTOMOBILE: Any premises occupied or designed to accommodate more
than one automobile house trailer.
USE: The purpose for which land or a building is intended, designed, arranged
or maintained.
YARD: An open space unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward, on the
same lot with a main building, except as otherwise provided in this title.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying
between the front line of the lot and the nearest line of the building.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying between
the rear line of the lot and the nearest line of the principal building.
YARD, SIDE: That part of the yard lying between the main building and a side
lot line, and extending from the required front yard or from the front lot
line, if there is no required front yard, to the required rear yard. (Ord., 5-
7-1984; amd. Ord. 222, 7-6-1995; Ord. 277, 9-16-2002)
***** CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION AND PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION *****
SECTION:
11-3-1: Administrator
11-3-2: Commission Created
11-3-3: Qualifications; Term Of Office
11-3-4: Organization
11-3-5: Compensation; Reports; Meetings
11-3-6: Powers And Duties
11-3-7: City Departments To Cooperate
11-3-8: Problems To Be Submitted
11-3-9: Relation To Other Boards
11-3-10: Authority To Expend Money Withheld
11-3-11: Standing Committees
11-3-12: Conflict Of Interest
11-3-1: ADMINISTRATOR:
   (A)   For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this title, an
Administrator and commission are hereby created.
   (B)   The Administrator may be the City Clerk, or any other person
designated by the Council.
   (C)   For the purpose of this title, the Administrator shall have the
following duties:
      1.   Advise interested persons of this title's provisions;
      2.   Notify the news media regarding matters of public interest;
      3.   Aid applicants in the preparation of required applications;
      4.   Issue zoning permits, certificate of occupancy permits,
notifications, stop work orders and such similar administrative duties, subject
to the veto powers of the City Council;
      5.   Investigate all violations of this title and notify in writing the
person responsible for such violation(s), ordering the action necessary to
correct such violation;
      6.   Assist the commission and City Council in carrying out the
provisions of this title;
      7.   Inform the City Council of all actions taken on a monthly basis.
(Ord. 363, 9-5-2017)
11-3-2: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created a Planning and Zoning Commission for the City, which
commission shall be known and designated as the City of New Plymouth Planning
and Zoning Commission. That Planning and Zoning Commission created by prior New
Plymouth City codes shall remain in existence and the existing members shall be
allowed to complete their terms of office. (Ord. 363, 9-5-2017)
11-3-3: QUALIFICATIONS; TERM OF OFFICE:
The Planning and Zoning Commission shall consist of five (5) members to be
appointed by the Mayor, and confirmed by a majority of the City Council. All
members shall be residents of the City, except that two (2) of the members may
be from the New Plymouth impact area. All appointed members of the Planning and
Zoning Commission shall be appointed for and shall hold office for a term of
six (6) years. An appointed member must have resided in the County for at least
two (2) years prior to appointment and must remain a resident of the County
during his or her service on the commission. In the event of the death,
resignation or any vacancy in said commission, the Mayor is hereby authorized
and empowered to fill such vacancy by appointment for the unexpired term of
such member or members. All present members are hereby reappointed in the
present positions for the remainder of their terms. (Ord. 363, 9-5-2017; amd.
Ord. 412, 2-2-2021)
11-3-4: ORGANIZATION:
The Planning and Zoning Commission shall, at its first meeting, elect a
President and a Vice President who shall be members of the commission, who
shall serve at the pleasure of the commission or the Council. A majority of the
members of the commission shall constitute a quorum. (Ord. 363, 9-5-2017)
11-3-5: COMPENSATION; REPORTS; MEETINGS:
Members of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall receive no compensation.
The City Clerk shall be the Secretary of the commission. The Secretary shall
keep an accurate record of all proceedings of said commission and shall, make
and file with the Council a report of all transactions of the commission. A
monthly report of activities of the commission shall be provided to the
Council. A record of meetings, hearings, resolutions, studies, findings,
permits and actions taken shall be maintained. All meetings and records shall
be open to the public. The commission shall hold at least one regular meeting
each month for not less than nine (9) months in each calendar year. (Ord. 363,
9-5-2017)
11-3-6: POWERS AND DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the Planning and Zoning Commission to study economic,
social and physical conditions of the City, and to recommend and make
suggestions to the Council concerning the laying out, widening, extending,
parking and locating the streets, sidewalks, boulevards, the establishment of
setback lines, the relief of traffic congestion, the betterment of housing and
sanitation conditions and the establishment of zones and districts limiting the
use, height, area and bulk of buildings, and structures; to recommend to the
Council plans for the regulation of the future growth, development and
beautification of the Municipality in respect to its public and private
buildings and work, streets, parks, grounds and vacant lots, and plans
consistent with the future growth and development of the City in order to
secure the City and its inhabitants, sanitation, proper service of all public
utilities, and transportation facilities, and in general to study and to
propose such measures as may be advisable for the promotion of the public
interest, health, morals, safety, comfort, convenience and welfare of said
City, and in the City impact area. (Ord. 363, 9-5-2017)
11-3-7: CITY DEPARTMENTS TO COOPERATE:
All departments and employees of the City shall cooperate with, and furnish to
the Planning and Zoning Commission, maps, reports, and all available data
necessary for the commission to properly and adequately carry out its
functions. Subject to the limitations set out in section
11-3-10 of this chapter, the Planning and Zoning Commission is also authorized
to appoint such technical and advisory committees as are necessary to carry out
its work, and to call upon the citizens of the community and the various civic
organizations for cooperation and assistance to the end that a coordinated
program of City planning and zoning may be promoted. (Ord. 363, 9-5-2017)
11-3-8: PROBLEMS TO BE SUBMITTED:
All matters pertaining to zoning and subdivisions shall be submitted to the
Planning and Zoning Commission for its recommendations before being presented
to the Council. (Ord. 363, 9-5-2017)
11-3-9: RELATION TO OTHER BOARDS:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as infringing upon the authority
previously granted to any existing commission or board but provides that such
commissions or boards shall coordinate their efforts with the Planning and
Zoning Commission to the end that a more comprehensive plan of the City
development may be evolved. (Ord. 363, 9-5-2017)
11-3-10: AUTHORITY TO EXPEND MONEY WITHHELD:
The Planning and Zoning Commission shall have no authority to make expenditures
on behalf of the City nor to obligate the City for the payment of any sum of
money unless first authorized by the Council who shall specify the
administrative method by which such funds shall be expended. (Ord. 363, 9-5-
2017)
11-3-11: STANDING COMMITTEES:
The Mayor shall have the power to provide for various standing committees
composed of members of the Planning and Zoning Commission, and he shall appoint
from the Planning and Zoning Commission the members of each committee; each
standing committee shall have the duty and power to study the problems and
conditions existing within its particular scope and field, and each standing
committee shall submit its recommendations and suggestions relating to the
problems and conditions existing within its particular scope and field to the
full Planning and Zoning Commission. (Ord. 363, 9-5-2017)
11-3-12: CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
The City Council creating a commission shall provide that the area and
interests within its jurisdiction are broadly represented on the commission. A
member or employee of the City Council or commission shall not participate in
any proceeding or action when the member or employee or his employer, business
partner, business associate or any person related to him by affinity or
consanguinity within the second degree has an economic interest in the
procedure or action. Any actual or potential interest in any proceeding shall
be disclosed at or before any meeting at which the action is being heard or
considered. A knowing violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor and
punishable as provided herein. (Ord. 363, 9-5-2017)
***** CHAPTER 4
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS *****
SECTION:
11-4-1: Streets And Boundaries
11-4-2: Compliance With District Requirements
11-4-3: Height Regulations
11-4-4: Area Regulations
11-4-5: Space Regulations
11-4-6: Projections On Open Spaces
11-4-7: One Building Per Lot
11-4-8: Previously Recorded Lots
11-4-9: Street Access Required
11-4-10: Interference With Traffic
11-4-11: Exceptions; Time Limit
11-4-12: Rezoning Of Public Areas
11-4-13: Annexations
11-4-14: Accessory Buildings
11-4-15: Certificate Of Zoning Compliance
11-4-16: Reserved
11-4-17: Reserved
11-4-18: Conditional Uses
11-4-19: Setback Line; Public Buildings
11-4-20: Zoning Action Makes No Change In Other Acts
11-4-21: Building Across Lot Lines
11-4-1: STREETS AND BOUNDARIES:
All streets, alleys and railroad rights of way, if not otherwise specifically
designated shall be deemed to be in the same zone as the property immediately
abutting upon such alleys, streets or railroad rights of way. Where the center
line of a street or alley serves as a district boundary, the zoning of such
street or alley to the center line unless otherwise specifically designated,
shall be deemed to be the same as that of the abutting property. (Ord., 5-7-
1984)
11-4-2: COMPLIANCE WITH DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS:
No building or structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed
or structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used for any purpose
other than is permitted in the district in which the building or land is
located. (Ord., 5-7-1984)
11-4-3: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No structure may be erected to exceed more than twenty five feet (25') of the
height limits of the zone in which it is located. Aerials or antennas designed
to aid home television reception may be erected to a height not to exceed sixty
feet (60') from the ground level; provided, said aerial or antenna is erected
on a building or in the rear yard area. (Ord., 5-7-1984)
11-4-4: AREA REGULATIONS:
No building or structure other than a building for conditional use shall be
erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or structurally altered except in
conformity with the area regulations of the zone in which the building is
located. (Ord., 5-7-1984)
11-4-5: SPACE REGULATIONS:
No space which for the purpose of a building or dwelling group has been counted
or calculated as part of a side yard, rear yard, front yard, court or other
open space required by this chapter, may, by reason of change in ownership or
otherwise, be counted or calculated to satisfy or comply with a yard, court or
other space requirement of or for any other building. (Ord., 5-7-1984)
11-4-6: PROJECTIONS ON OPEN SPACES:
An open terrace, but not including a roofed-over porch or terrace, may occupy a
front yard provided the unoccupied portion of the front yard has a depth of not
less than fifteen feet (15'). A one story bay window may project into a front
yard not more than three feet (3'). Overhanging eaves, including gutters, may
project over the minimum required side yard not more than eighteen inches
(18"). (Ord., 5-7-1984)
11-4-7: ONE BUILDING PER LOT:
Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered to provide dwelling
units shall be located on a lot as herein defined and in no case shall there be
more than one such building on one lot unless otherwise provided in this title,
provided that except in a two (2) story garage with living quarters upon the
second floor, such quarter may be occupied by a servant (and his family) of the
family occupying the main structure. There may also be constructed a guesthouse
(without kitchen) or rooms for guests within an accessory building; provided,
such facilities are used for the occasional housing of guests of the occupants
of the main structure and not for permanent occupancy by others. (Ord., 5-7-
1984)
11-4-8: PREVIOUSLY RECORDED LOTS:
Any separate lot, the title of which was of record at the time of the adoption
of this title, that does not meet the requirements of this title for yards,
courts or other area of open space, may be utilized for single residence
purpose; provided, the requirements for such yard or court or lot area, width,
depth or open space is within seventy five percent (75%) of that required by
this chapter. The purpose of this provision is to permit utilization of
recorded lots which lack adequate width or depth as long as reasonable living
standards can be provided. (Ord., 5-7-1984)
11-4-9: STREET ACCESS REQUIRED:
No building shall be constructed or erected upon a lot or parcel of land, which
does not abut upon a public street or have permanent easement for access to a
public street, which easement shall have a minimum width of twenty five feet
(25') unless an easement of lesser width was of record prior to the adoption of
this chapter. (Ord., 5-7-1984)
11-4-10: INTERFERENCE WITH TRAFFIC:
No wall, fence or shrubbery shall unreasonably obstruct or interfere with
traffic visibility. (Ord., 5-7-1984)
11-4-11: EXCEPTIONS; TIME LIMIT:
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to require any change in the
plans, construction or designated use of any building upon which actual
construction was lawfully begun prior to the adoption of this chapter and upon
which building or actual construction has been diligently carried on; and
provided further, that such building shall be completed within one year.
   (B)   Unless otherwise indicated in the action granting approval of any
variance, conditional use or any other permit of any kind, in the event any use
which is permitted pursuant to any section of this Code is not completed within
one year after the date of issuance of a permit, the permit shall expire. After
that date, no work shall commence or continue unless the permit is renewed or
extended.
   (C)   This section is not intended to repeal any other time limitations set
elsewhere in this Code. (Ord. 259, 10-18-1999)
11-4-12: REZONING OF PUBLIC AREAS:
An area indicated on the official zoning map as a public park or recreation
area, public utility area, cemetery, public school site or semipublic open
space, shall not be used for any other purposes and when the use of the area is
discontinued, it shall automatically be zoned Residence A One-Family District,
until otherwise zoned. (Ord., 5-7-1984)
11-4-13: ANNEXATIONS:
Any area annexed to the Municipality shall, upon such annexation, be
automatically zoned Residence A One-Family District, until otherwise zoned.
(Ord., 5-7-1984)
11-4-14: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
Accessory buildings, except as otherwise permitted in this title, shall be
subject to the following regulations:
   (A)   Where any accessory building is structurally attached to a main
building, it shall be subject, and will conform to, all regulations of this
chapter applicable to the main building.
   (B)   Accessory buildings shall be set back from interior lot lines and rear
lot lines the distance of five feet (5') as required by the International
Residential Code.
   (C)   No detached accessory building shall be located closer than five feet
(5') to any main building.
   (D)   An accessory building shall not be erected prior to the establishment
or construction of the principal use building.
   (E)   An accessory building shall not encroach upon or into a front yard. On
corner lots, an accessory building shall not encroach upon or into any front
yard which is adjacent to an abutting street. (Ord. 368, 2-5-2018; amd. Ord.
432, 12-1-2025)
11-4-15: CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE:
No building, structure, or part thereof shall be erected, moved, added to,
structurally altered, nor shall any building, structure or land be established
or changed in use without a certificate of zoning compliance therefor issued by
the Administrator. Certificates of zoning compliance shall be issued only in
conformity with the provisions of this Title. (Ord., 5-7-1984; amd. Ord. 435,
3-23-2026)
11-4-16: RESERVED: (Repealed by Ord. 435, 3-23-2026)
11-4-17: RESERVED: (Repealed by Ord. 435, 3-23-2026)
11-4-18: CONDITIONAL USES:
   (A)   Application for conditional uses, as defined herein, shall be
considered at a public hearing before the Zoning Commission. Said Zoning
Commission shall make its findings of fact and recommendations to the Governing
Body within thirty (30) days after the public hearing.
   (B)   The Zoning Commission may recommend such restrictions upon the height
and bulk of any structure so approved for conditional use as may be reasonable
under the particular circumstances, provided that such restrictions shall not
be more restrictive than the requirements established for the zone on which
such structure is proposed to be located. (Ord., 5-7-1984)
11-4-19: SETBACK LINE; PUBLIC BUILDINGS:
The Zoning Commission shall have the power to alter the required setback line
in case of public or semipublic buildings after a public hearing and after a
showing that such action will not cause damage and will be in accord with the
general purpose of this title. (Ord., 5-7-1984)
11-4-20: ZONING ACTION MAKES NO CHANGE IN OTHER ACTS:
The Governing Body hereby declares that it is its intention that this title
does not repeal any existing laws in regard to Fire Codes, buildings,
sanitation or otherwise. (Ord., 5-7-1984)
11-4-21: BUILDING ACROSS LOT LINES:
No building or structure shall be erected across any lot line. Where a building
or structure is proposed across lot lines, the lot lines shall be vacated or
the lots combined into a single parcel through a process approved by New
Plymouth City Code or Idaho law. (Ord. 435, 3-23-2026)
**** ARTICLE A. LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS ****
SECTION:
11-4A-1: Purpose
11-4A-2: Applicability
11-4A-3: Application Requirements
11-4A-4: Application Process
11-4A-5: Standards And Installation
11-4A-6: Irrigation Standards
11-4A-7: Landscape Buffers Along Streets
11-4A-8: Parking Lot Landscaping
11-4A-9: Landscape Buffers To Adjoining Uses
11-4A-10: Tree Preservation
11-4A-11: Stormwater Integration
11-4A-12: Pathway Landscaping
11-4A-13: Landscape Maintenance
11-4A-14: Installation
11-4A-1: PURPOSE:
   (A)   The regulations of this Article are intended to promote landscaping in
the City of New Plymouth that will impose community livability, preserve the
quality of life, and enhance the aesthetic quality, economic viability, and
environmental health of the City.
   (B)   The City of New Plymouth recognizes that landscaping can be a
significant expense to businesses and residents. At the same time, high quality
landscaping improves the livability of residential neighborhoods, enhances the
appearance and customer attraction of commercial areas, increases property
values, improves the compatibility of adjacent uses, screens undesirable views,
and can reduce air, water, and noise pollution.
   (C)   The intent of these regulations is to achieve a balance between the
right of individuals to develop and maintain their property in a manner they
prefer and the rights of City residents to live, work, shop, and recreate in
pleasant, healthy, sustainable, and attractive surroundings.
   (D)   The City recognizes that surface irrigation water is not available
everywhere, that seasonal availability fluctuates, and that highly treated
potable water is expensive and less desirable for landscaping. These
regulations are intended to encourage the use of water conserving landscape
designs and low water use plant materials and to discourage landscaping that
requires high water use for maintenance, such as large expanses of lawn or
turf.
   (E)   These regulations are intended to assist in the implementation of
CPTED (crime prevention through environmental design) strategies to reduce the
opportunities of fear and incidence of crime and improve the quality of life.
(Ord. 437, 5-20-2026)
11-4A-2: APPLICABILITY:
A landscaping plan shall be required for the following:
   (A)   All development, redevelopment, additions, or site modifications
except detached single-family dwellings.
   (B)   All common lots in subdivisions.
   (C)   All applications for conditional use permit (CUP), preliminary plat
(PP), combined preliminary and final plat (PFP), or certificate of zoning
compliance (CZC). (Ord. 437, 5-20-2026)
11-4A-3: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   All landscape plans shall comply with the requirements for size,
scale, number of copies, and contents as detailed in the application form.
   (B)   The landscape plan may be on the same site plan used to show parking
layout, setback compliance, etc.
   (C)   The landscape plan shall be prepared by a landscape architect,
landscape designer, or qualified nurseryman. (Ord. 437, 5-20-2026)
11-4A-4: APPLICATION PROCESS:
   (A)   Preliminary Landscape Plan Review. A preliminary landscape plan review
is recommended prior to submission for all developments but is not required.
   (B)   Landscape Plan Review. A landscape plan will be reviewed in accord
with the standards and procedures set forth in this article and approved by the
Administrator or designee.
   (C)   Landscape Plan Modification.
      1.   An approved landscape plan shall not be altered without prior
approval of the Administrator or designee.
      2.   No significant field changes to the plan are permitted.
      3.   Prior written approval of all material changes is required.
      4.   All approved changes to the landscape plan shall be documented prior
to issuance of a certificate of occupancy. (Ord. 437, 5-20-2026)
11-4A-5: STANDARDS AND INSTALLATION:
   (A)   Approved tree species:
      1.   The publication entitled, "Treasure Valley Tree Selection Guide, 2nd
Edition" (or as may be amended or updated from time to time) is hereby adopted
by this reference as the City's approved and prohibited tree species. The
publication categorizes the trees by size as Class I, Class II, or Class III
trees.
      2.   In addition to the trees identified in the Treasure Valley Tree
Selection Guide, the following water conserving trees:
      Acer Maples
         campestre - Hedge Maple
         ginnala - Amur Maple
         labrum - Rocky Mountain Maple
         grndidentatum - Bigtooth Maple
         griseum - Paperback Maple
         miyabei - Miyabei Maple
         truncatum x platonoides - Shantung Maple Hybrids
      Amelanchier Serviceberry
         x grandiflora Autumn Brilliance Serviceberry
      Carpinus Hornbeam
         betulus - European Hornbeam
         caroliana - American Hornbeam
      Catalpa
         speciosa - Northern Catalpa
      Celtis Hackberry
         occidentalis Common Hackberry
      Cercis Redbud
         canadensis - Eastern Redbud
         occidentalis - Western Redbud
      Cladrastis Yellowwood
         kentuckea/lutea - American Yellowwood
      Cornus (Dogwood)
         mas - Corneliancherry
      Cotinus Smoke Tree
         coggygria - Common Smoketree
         obovatus - American Smoketree
      Crataegus Hawthorn
         crusgalli - Cockspur Hawthorn
         douglasii - Douglas Hawthorn
         phaenopyrum - Washington Hawthorn
         viridis - Green Hawthorn 'Winter King'
      Gleditsia Honeylocust
         triacanthos var inermis - Thornless Common Honeylocust
         'Suncole' - Sunburst Honeylocust (prohibited in ROW)
      Gymnocladus
         Dioicus - Kentucky Coffee Tree
      Maackia
         Amurensis - Amur Maackia
      Maclura
         Pomifera - Osage Orange
      Ostrya
         Virginiana - American Hophornbeam/Ironwood
      Parrotia
         Persica - Persian Parrotia
      Platanus
         x acerifolia - London Planetree
         occidentalis - American Planetree/Sycamore
      Prunus
         virginiana - Chokecherry
      Pyrus
         calleryana - Ornamental Flowering Pear
      Quercus Oaks
         imbricaria - Shingle Oak
         macrocarpa - Bur Oak
         muehlenbergli - Chinkapin Oak
         rubra - Northern Red Oak
      Saphora Japonica AKA Styphnolobium
         japaonicum - Japanese Pagoda Tree
         tillia - Linden
         tomentosa - Silver Linden
      Ulmus - Elm Hybrids
      Conifers
         calocedrus decurrens - Incense Cedar
         cedrus atlantica 'Glauca' - Blue Atlas Cedar
         chamaecyparis lawsoniana - Lawson's Cypress
         cupressus nootkatensis - Alaskan Cedar
      Juniperus - Junipers
         communis - Common Juniper
         occidentalis - Western Juniper
         osteosperma - Utah Juniper
         scopulorum - Rocky Mountain Juniper
      Picea - Spruce
         abies - Norway Spruce
         glauca - White Spruce and Black Hills Spruce
         pungens - Colorado Spruce
      Pinus - Pines
         aristate - Bristlecone Pine
         contorta/latifolia - Lodgepole Pine
         flexillis - Limber Pine, including 'Vanderwolf's Pyramid'
         heldrechii/leucodermis
         nigra - Austrian Pine
         ponderosa - Ponderosa Pine
         strobiformis - Southwestern White Pine
         sylvestris - Scotch Pine
         pseudotsuga menzliesii - Douglas Fir
         thuja pilcata - Western Red Cedar
   (B)   Minimum Plant Sizes: The following are minimum plant sizes for all
required landscape areas:
TABLE 11-4A-5-1
MINIMUM PLANT SIZES
 
Type of Tree     Minimum Size
Evergreen trees  6-foot height minimum
Ornamental trees 2-inch caliper minimum
Shade trees      2-inch caliper minimum
Woody shrubs     2-gallon pot minimum
 
   (C)   Prohibited Plant Materials: The plants listed in the Treasure Valley
Tree Guide, under the heading of trees "not to be planted in rights-of-ways,"
are prohibited from being planted along any street or within any parking lot
regulated by this Article. The only exception is that conifers (not otherwise
prohibited) may be planted in the center of street buffers that have a minimum
width of twenty feet (20') as measured from the edge of the sidewalk to the
street curb. For public safety purposes, the location of such conifers shall
maintain view corridors of non-residential structures.
   (D)   Tree Species Mix: When five (5) or more trees are to be planted to
meet the requirements of any portion of this Article (including street trees,
street buffers, parking lot landscaping and other landscape guidelines), a mix
of species shall be provided. The number of species to be planted shall vary
according to the overall number of trees to be planted. See the table below.
TABLE 11-4A-5-2
REQUIRED NUMBER OF TREES AND SPECIES
 
Required Number of Trees Minimum Number of Species
5 to 10                  2
11 to 30                 3
31 to 50                 4
More than 50             5
 
   (E)   Plant Quality: All plant material installed pursuant to this Article
shall meet or exceed the minimum federal standards as regulated by ANSI Z60.1,
"American Standard for Nursery Stock."
   (F)   Planting Standards: All trees, shrubs, and other plant material shall
be planted in appropriate soil medium and using accepted nursery standards,
including hole size, backfilling, and fertilization, or as detailed by a
certified landscape architect or qualified arborist.
   (G)   Staking: Tree staking is not required but may be used in areas with
high winds or other situations that make staking desirable. If trees are
staked, the stakes shall be removed within twelve (12) months to prevent damage
to the tree.
   (H)   Mulching: Mulch shall be used in all required planting areas. Approved
mulches may be organic, such as bark or soil aid, or they may include rock
products, such as "permabark" or similar products. Use of mulch, organic or
rock, as the only ground cover in required planting areas is prohibited. Pea
gravel, drain rock, road base gravel, and similar products shall not be used as
mulch. All mulch shall be contained by a curb, concret mow strip, or other
edging material to contain the mulch and prevent it from migrating to adjacent
surfaces. If rock mulch is used, a weed barrier fabric shall be used beneath
the rock. Impermeable plastic weed barriers are prohibited because they
restrict water and oxygen to the plants. Within stormwater facilities, mulch
may not float.
   (I)   Curbing: All planting areas that border driveways, parking lots, and
other vehicle use areas shall be protected by curbing, wheel stops, or other
approved protective devices. Such devices shall be a minimum of thirty inches
(30") from all tree trunks to prevent cars from damaging tree trunks.
   (J)   Utilities: The following standards apply to the planting of trees near
existing utilities and to trenching for new utilities near existing trees:
      1.   Overhead Utilities: Only Class I trees may be planted under or
within ten (10) lateral feet of any overhead utility wires.
      2.   Underground Utilities: All trees shall be planted outside of any
easement that contains a city water or sewer main, unless written approval is
obtained from the City Engineer. If any utility easement precludes trees
required by this Article, the width of the required buffer shall be increased
to accommodate the required trees.
      3.   Trenching: New underground utilities shall stay outside of the drip
line of existing trees if trenched, or be tunneled a minimum of three feet (3')
below existing grade within the tree's drip line. The guiding principle is that
no root two inches (2") or larger shall be cut. Note: This requirement is for
placement of new utilities and does not affect the City's ability to access
existing utilities for repair or maintenance.
   (K)   Erosion Control: The landscape installation shall stabilize all soil
and slopes.
   (L)   Berms: Berm slopes shall not exceed three to one (3:1) (horizontal:
vertical). Three to one (3:1) maximum slopes are recommended. Grass that
requires mowing shall not be used on slopes steeper than three to one (3:1).
   (M)   Screening: Where screening is required in this Article, this Title,
and/or Title XII, chainlink fencing with or without slats does not qualify as a
screening material.
   (N)   Vegetation Coverage: Required landscape areas shall be at least
seventy percent (70%) covered with vegetation at maturity, with mulch used
under and around plants, or alternatively, meet the standards for water
conserving design below.
   (O)   Water Conserving Design: To qualify for the exceptions for water
conserving designs as set forth in this Article, the applicant shall
demonstrate the following:
      1.   The design includes water conserving trees as specified in this
Article, use of native or drought resistant shrubs, perennials or ornamental
grasses, water conserving plants, boulders, rocks, decorative walls and/or
permeable hardscape materials such as pavers and flagstones, and that are
visually distinct (size, texture, or color) and clearly visible from the
adjacent travel roadway or drive aisle.
      2.   The design includes plants that can thrive in climates with
approximately ten (10) to twelve (12) inches of annual rainfall.
      3.   Lawn and turf areas shall not comprise more than fifty percent (50%)
of the total landscaped areas and shall consist of water-conserving grasses,
including but not limited to, buffalo grass, blue gamma grass, compact fescue,
Xerilawn, turf-type tall fescue and/or rhyzomotuous tall fescue.
      4.   Herbaceous and/or perennial ground cover shall be drought tolerant
and able to withstand dry conditions once established. As a guide, refer to the
recommended plants in the City of Boise Parks and Recreation Department "Water
Conservation Guidelines."
      5.   Excluding lawn and turf, no area larger than three hundred seventy-
five square feet (375 sq. ft.) may be covered by a single ground cover material
without additional hardscape or design feature of no less than one hundred
twenty-five square feet (125 sq. ft.).
      6.   The required street landscape buffer widths as provided in section
11-4A-7(C))(1) of this Article may be reduced up to fifty percent (50%).
      7.   Required landscape areas shall be at least forty percent (40%)
covered with vegetation at maturity.
   (P)   Safety:
      1.   Landscaping shall be designed and installed in such a way as to
provide natural surveillance opportunities from public areas and not create
hiding places or blind spots.
      2.   Shrubs and plant material installed in close proximity to windows
and entryways should be limited in size and be of slow growing varieties to
prevent overgrowth and concealment of windows and entryways creating
opportunities for crime. (Ord. 437, 5-20-2026)
11-4A-6: IRRIGATION STANDARDS:
   (A)   Irrigation Required: All landscape areas regulated by this Article
shall be served with an automatic underground irrigation system.
   (B)   Performance Specifications:
      1.   Coverage: The irrigation system shall be designed to provide on
hundred percent (100%) coverage within lawn areas with head-to-head spacing or
triangular spacing as appropriate or point-to-point (drip) at each plant or
planting area.
      2.   Matched Precipitation Rates: Sprinkler heads shall have matched
precipitation rates within each control valve circuit.
      3.   Irrigation Hydrozones: Sprinkler heads irrigating lawn or other high
water demand areas shall be circuited so that they are on a separate hydrozone
from those irrigating trees, shrubs, or other reduced water demand areas.
      4.   Overspray: Sprinkler heads shall be installed and adjusted to reduce
overspray ont impervious surfaces such as streets, sidewalks, driveways, and
parking areas.
   (C)   Backflow Prevention: Provide an appropriate backflow prevention device
as required by Title VIII, Chapter 6, "Water Supply System," of this Code.
   (D)   Non-potable Water: Use of non-potable irrigation and/or reuse water is
required when determined to be available by the City public works department;
reuse water may not be used for stormwater facilities. Water availability
during the fall and spring seasons is also required by connecting to City
potable water, City reuse water, and/or an on-site well as a secondary source.
An exception may be approved for water conserving designs as set forth in
subsection
11-4A-5(O) of this Article. In such cases, the requirement for a secondary
source may be waived by the Administrator or designee. If City potable water is
used, a separate meter is required.
   (E)   Subdivision Irrigation Systems: If a pressurized irrigation pump
station is required on the developed property, such station shall be on a lot
solely dedicated to that pump station. Said lot shall be owned by the entity
that owns and maintains the pressurized irrigation system. (Ord. 437, 5-20-
2026)
11-4A-7: LANDSCAPE BUFFERS ALONG STREETS:
   (A)   Purpose: The intent of these requirements is to ensure the long term
and consistent maintenance of landscape buffers along streets that improve the
visual quality of the streetscape and unify diverse architecture.
   (B)   Applicability: Landscape buffers shall be required along streets in
all locations, except for local streets adjacent to residential properties.
   (C)   Standards: Standards for landscape buffers along streets shall be as
follows:
      1.   Buffer Size: The required landscape buffers along streets are set
forth in Table 11-4A-7-1 below.
TABLE 11-4A-7-1
STREET LANDSCAPE BUFFER SIZE
 
Street Landscape Buffer (in feet) Zone
                                  Res A Res B Res C Commercial D Industrial E
Local                                               10           10
Collector                         20    20    20    20           20
Arterial                          25    25    25    25           25
Entryway Corridor                 35    35    35    35           35
 
         (a)   Measurement:
            (1)   All street buffers with attached sidewalks shall be measured
from the back of sidewalk or multiuse pathway. Where the City or applicable
highway district is anticipating widening of the street, the width of the
buffer shall be measured from the ultimate sidewalk or multiuse pathway
location as anticipated by the City or applicable highway district.
            (2)   All street buffers with detached sidewalks or multiuse
pathways shall be measured from the back of curb. Where the City or applicable
highway district is anticipating future widening of the street, the width of
the buffer shall be measured from the ultimate curb location as anticipated by
the City or applicable highway district. Detached sidewalks and multiuse
pathways shall have an average minimum separation of greater than four feet
(4') to back of curb.
         (b)   Easements: Where the buffer is encumbered by easements or other
restrictions, the buffer area shall include a minimum five-foot wide area for
planting shrubs and trees.
         (c)   Width Reduction: In a development where the required street
buffer width results in an otherwise unavoidable hardship to the property, a
written request for a buffer reduction may be submitted through the alternative
compliance process in accord NPCC § 11-18A-2. The request shall demonstrate
evidence of the unique hardship caused by the required street buffer and
propose a specific alternative landscape plan that meets or exceeds the intent
of the required buffer. In no case shall the width be reduced to less than ten
percent (10%) of the depth of the lot. A reduction to the buffer width shall
not affect building setbacks; all structures shall be set back from the
property line a minimum of the buffer width required in the applicable zoning
district.
      2.   Buffer Location: Landscape buffers along streets shall be located at
all subdivision boundaries.
         (a)   All street landscape buffers shall be on a common lot or on a
permanent dedicated buffer easement, maintained by the property owner,
homeowner's association or business owner's association.
         (b)   Except where fences and walls are used as decorative landscape
elements or as noise abatement, fences and walls are permitted only on the
interior edge of the street buffer.
      3.   Buffer Landscaping Materials:
         (a)   All required landscape buffers along streets shall be designed
and planted with a variety of trees, shrubs, lawn, or other vegetative ground
cover. Plant materials in conjunction with site design shall elicit design
principles including rhythm, repetition, balance, and focal elements.
         (b)   The minimum density of one (1) tree per thirty-five (35) linear
feet is required. At least thirty-five percent (35%) of qualifying trees must
provide urban canopy at maturity, and at least twenty-five percent (25%) of
qualifying trees must be Class II selections, unless it can be shown that
utility conflicts prohibit installation of Class II trees. All calculation
results in a fraction of five (5) or greater, round up to an additional tree.
All calculation results in a fraction less than five (5), round down.
         (c)   Large shrubs, hedges, and conifers should be used sparingly and
in clusters that are well integrated with the landscape design. Such plants
shall not screen or create a public safety hazard.
         (d)   Where street trees are within a parkway, they shall be centered
within the parkway planter. Where street trees are not within a parkway, they
shall be offset a minimum of five feet (5') from the edge of sidewalk.
         (e)   Lawn and other grasses requiring regular mowing shall comprise
no more than sixty-five percent (65%) of the vegetated coverage of a landscape
buffer. This maximum area excludes landscaped parkway with trees. All other
vegetated coverage shall be mulched and treated as planting area for shrubs or
other vegetative cover. Areas along required walls and closed vision fences
should generally be reserved for planting beds with a minimum of one (1) shrub
per seven (7) lineal fees of frontage, as demonstrated in Figure 1.
   FIGURE 1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/62fd250a50858f3f623036b77def175715145d0b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1683.jpg]
 
      (f)   Entryway Corridors: Along all entryway corridors, additional
landscape design features shall be provided within landscape buffers. Features
may include berms of no less than four to one (4:1) slope to at a three-foot
minimum height, decorative landscape walls (no greater than three feet (3') in
height), decorative open vision fencing (no greater than four feet (4') in
height), or design elements with a similar level of effort (e.g., a dry creek
design with river rock, boulders, etc.) Detached sidewalks within landscaped
buffers are required along entryway corridors, unless curb, gutter, and
sidewalk already exist.
      (g)   In conditions with reduced landscape buffers, additional design
elements shall be required including reduced turf area, increased mulched
planting area and increased plant diversity, and additional vertical design
features such as decorative landscape retaining walls (no greater than three
feet (3') in height).
      4.   Tree Spacing: For design flexibility, trees may be grouped together
or spaced evenly as desired. Landscape designs should consider tree placement
location, spacing, and clumping to avoid conflicts with wayfinding and business
identification signs. However, trees shall be spaced no closer than eighty
percent (80% of the average mature width of the trees, as demonstrated in
Figure 2.
   FIGURE 2
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/62fd250a50858f3f623036b77def175715145d0b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1685.jpg]
 
      5.   Landscaping Within Right-of-Way:
      (a)   If the unimproved street right-of-way is ten feet (10') or greater
from the edge of pavement to edge of sidewalk or property line, the developer
shall maintain a ten-foot compacted shoulder meeting the construction standards
of the City or applicable highway district and landscape the remainder with
lawn or other vegetative ground cover.
      (b)   Landscaping improvements within the right-of-way shall require a
license agreement between the property owner and the City or applicable highway
district.
      6.   Impervious Surfaces: Allowed impervious surfaces within the
landscape buffer include driveways, outdoor seating, signs, and walkways.
Vehicle display pads are prohibited in the required buffer.
      7.   Berms in Street Buffers: Berm design is subject to the provisions in
accord with subsection
11-4A-5(L) of this Article.
      8.   Stormwater detention: Stormwater swales and other green stormwater
facilities may be incorporated into the buffer in accord with section
11-4A-11 of this Article. Other stormwater detention and retention facilities
shall not be permitted in the street buffer. (Ord. 437, 5-20-2026)
11-4A-8: PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of perimeter and internal parking lot landscaping
is to soften and mitigate the visual and heat island effect of a large expanse
of asphalt in parking lots, and to improve the safety and comfort of
pedestrians.
   (B)   Applicability: The requirements for perimeter and internal lot
landscaping shall apply to all commercial, industrial, and multi-family
development, with the following exceptions:
      1.   Parking spaces adjoining loading areas in the Industrial E zone are
excluded from the interior landscape requirements.
      2.   For parking lot reconstruction, exclusive of sealing, striping, or
overlaying, all current landscape standards of this section shall be met,
unless approved as set forth in section
11-14-5(A) of this Title.
      3.   If the location of existing buildings or other structures prevents
conformance with the requirements of this section, or if its implementation
would create a nonconformity with parking standards, the Administrator or
designee shall determine how this Article is to be applied through the
alternative compliance process set forth in NPCC § 11-18A-2.
   (C)   Standards:
      1.   Perimeter Landscaping: The following standards apply to the
perimeter of parking or other vehicular use areas, including driveways:
      (a)   Requirement: Provide a five-foot wide minimum landscape buffer
adjacent to parking, loading, or other paved vehicular areas, including
driveways, vehicle sales areas, truck parking areas, bus parking areas, and
vehicle storage areas, subject to the following exceptions:
      (1)   This requirement may be reduced or waived at the determination of
the Administrator or designee where there is a shared driveway and/or recorded
cross-parking agreement and easement with an adjacent property.
      (2)   This requirement may be reduced or waived at the determination of
the Administrator or designee for truck maneuvering areas in industrial or
commercial zones.
      (b)   Landscaping: The perimeter landscape buffer shall be planted with
one Class II or Class III tree per thirty-five (35) linear feet and shrubs,
lawn, or other vegetative ground cover.
      (c)   Encroachments: Structures less than one hundred twenty square feet
(120 sf), including but not limited to, trash enclosures and storage sheds, may
encroach into a required landscape buffer, excluding any buffer to adjoining
residential uses as set forth in section
11-4A-9 of this Article.
      2.   Internal Landscaping: Interior parking lot landscaping shall be
required on any parking lot with more than twelve (12) spaces. The following
standards apply to internal landscaping:
      (a)   Planter Size: Landscape planters shall contain a minimum of fifty
square feet (50 sf), and the planting area shall not be less than five feet
(5') in any dimension, measured inside curbs. The only exception to the five-
foot minimum dimension is at the tip of triangular planters located at the end
of rows of angled parking.
      (b)   Parking Spaces: No linear grouping of parking spaces shall exceed
twelve (12) in a row, without an internal planter island. The planter island
shall run the length of the parking space and may be reduced by two feet (2')
to allow for improve vehicular maneuvering.
      (c)   Parking Lot Layout: Interior landscaping shall, insofar as
possible, be used to delineate and guide major traffic movement within the
parking area so as to prevent cross space driving. Interior landscape planters
shall be spaced as evenly as feasible and at the ends of rows of parking
throughout the lot to consistently reduce the visual impact of long rows of
parked cars.
      (d)   Trees Required: Each interior planter that serves a single row of
parking spaces shall be landscaped with at least one (1) tree and shall be
covered with low shrubs, lawn, or other vegetative ground cover. Each interior
planter that serves a double row of parking spaces shall have at least two (2)
trees and shall be covered with low shrubs, lawn, or other vegetative ground
cover. Trees shall be centered within the planters and provide urban canopy.
Deciduous urban canopy trees shall be pruned to a minimum height of eight feet
(8') above the adjacent parking areas. Evergreen trees and Class III trees are
prohibited in interior planters.
      (e)   Design Flexibility: In parking areas where the strict application
of this subsection C will seriously limit the function and circulation of the
lot, up to fifty percent (50%) of the required landscaping may be located near
the perimeter of the paved area or adjacent to pedestrian corridors to
emphasize entrance corridors, pedestrian safety, or special landscape areas
within the general parking area. Such required interior landscaping that is
relocated shall be in addition to perimeter landscape and right-of-way
screening requirements. (Ord. 437, 5-20-2026)
11-4A-9: LANDSCAPE BUFFERS TO ADJOINING USES:
   (A)   Purpose: The requirements in this section shall apply to the landscape
buffer to residential and/or non-industrial uses set forth in Table 11-4A-9-1.
The landscape requirements in this section are intended to ensure that
incompatible, adjoining land uses are adequately protected and are provided an
appropriate amount of land separation to conduct permitted uses without causing
adverse impact.
   (B)   Applicability: The landscape buffer is required in the Commercial D
and Industrial E zones on any parcel sharing a contiguous lot line with a
residential land use.
   (C)   Standards:
      1.   Buffer Materials: The materials within the required buffer between
incompatible land uses are regulated as follows:
         (a)   Mix of Materials: All buffer areas shall be comprised of, but
not limited to, a mix of evergreen and deciduous trees, shrubs, lawn, or other
vegetative ground cover. Fences, walls, and berms may also be incorporated into
the buffer area as set forth in subsection
11-4A-7(C)(2) of this Article.
         (b)   Barrier Effectiveness: The required buffer area shall result in
a barrier that allows trees to touch within five (5) years of planting. Trees
that will not touch until maturity outside of this timeframe must be
supplemented with additional materials such as tall columnar evergreen shrubs
or other qualifying materials.
         (c)   Buffer Wall and/or Fence: Where existing or proposed adjacent
land uses cannot be adequately buffered with plant materials, the City may
require inclusion of a wall, fence, or other type of screen that mitigates
noise and/or unsightly uses. If a wall or fence at least six feet (6') tall is
provided, the planting requirement may be reduced to a minimum of one (1) tree
per thirty-five (35) linear feet, plus shrubs, lawn, or other vegetative ground
cover.
         (d)   Chainlink Fencing: Chainlink fencing with or without slats does
not qualify as a screening material. Except in the Industrial E zone, chainlink
or cyclone fencing is prohibited within required buffers between different land
uses. Chainlink may be used beyond the required buffer.
      2.   Minimum Buffer Size: The width of the buffer is determined by the
zone in which the property is located, unless such width is otherwise modified
by City Council at a public hearing with notice to surrounding property owners.
Table 11-4A-9-1 specifies the minimum buffer size. A reduction to the buffer
width shall not affect building setbacks; all structures shall be set back from
the property line a minimum of the buffer width required in the applicable
zoning district.
TABLE 11-4A-9-1
MINIMUM BUFFER SIZE
 
Zoning       Landscape Buffer to Residential Uses (in feet)
District
Commercial D 251
Industrial D 402
Notes:
1   Where the adjacent property is vacant, the Administrator or designee shall
determine the adjacent property designation based on the Comprehensive Plan
designation.
2   Applies to both buffers between residential and non-industrial uses.
3.   Pedestrian Access: Landscape buffers shall facilitate safe pedestrian
access from residential development to abutting commercial districts and vice
versa.
4.   Relationship to Parking Lot Perimeter Requirements: All buffers between
different land uses may include any required perimeter parking lot landscape
buffers (see subsection 11-4A-8(C) of this Article) when calculating the
minimum width of the buffer.
 
(Ord. 437, 5-20-2026)
11-4A-10: TREE PRESERVATION:
   (A)   Purpose: The regulations of this section are intended to preserve
existing trees four-inch caliper or greater from destruction during the
development process.
   (B)   Applicability: Tree preservation is required in all districts.
   (C)   Standards:
      1.   Site Plans: Site plans shall make all feasible attempts to maintain
existing trees four-inch caliper or greater within their design.
      2.   Landscape Plan. All existing trees greater than four-inch caliper
shall be shown on the landscape plan. Indicate whether each tree is to be
retained or removed. Include on the plan a description of how existing trees to
be retained are to be protected during construction.
      3.   Protection During Construction: Existing trees that are retained
shall be protected from damage to bark, branches, and roots during
construction. The City Arborist or designee shall approve the protection fence
(s) prior to construction. Any severely damaged tree shall be replaced in
accord with subsection (C)(5) of this section.
      4.   Construction Within the Drip Line of Existing Trees: Construction,
excavation, or fill occurring within the drip line of any existing trees shall
be avoided, except to supplement existing trees with new irrigation. Specific
requirements for construction within the drip line of existing trees are as
follows:
         (a)   Paving: Whenever possible, impervious paving surfaces shall
remain outside of the drip line of existing trees. When it is not possible,
impervious surfaces shall be allowed at a distance from the trunk of a retained
tree equal to the diameter of the tree trunk plus five feet (5').
         (b)   Grade Changes: Grade changes greater than six inches (6") are
prohibited within the drip line of existing trees.
         (c)   Compaction: A fence or barrier that encloses the entire area
beneath the tree canopy shall be in place prior to construction.
         (d)   Utilities: New underground utilities to be placed within the
drip line of existing trees shall be installed in accord with subsection
11-4A-5(J)(3) of this Article.
      5.   Mitigation:
         (a)   Mitigation shall be required for all existing trees four-inch
caliper or greater that are removed from the site with equal replacement of the
total calipers lost on site up to an amount of one hundred percent (100%)
replacement (example: two (2) ten-inch caliper trees removed may be mitigated
with four (4) five-inch caliper trees, five (5) four-inch caliper trees, or
seven (7) three-inch caliper trees). Deciduous specimen trees four-inch caliper
or greater may count double towards total calipers lost, when planted at
entryways, within common open space, and when used as focal elements in
landscape design.
         (b)   Not mitigation is required in the following:
            (1)   Exiting prohibited trees within the property boundary of the
project;
            (2)   Existing dead, dying, or hazardous trees certified prior to
removal by the City Arborist; or
            (3)   Trees that are required to be removed by another governmental
agency having jurisdiction over the project.
      6.   Required Landscaping: Existing trees that are retained or relocated
on site may count toward the required landscaping. Existing trees twelve-inch
caliper or greater that are verified healthy by the City Arborist or a
certified arborist and located within common open space or as focal elements
within the site may count equally towards the mitigation of calipers lost from
other removed trees. Mitigation trees are in addition to all other landscaping
required by this Article.
      7.   Incentives: The Administrator may allow a reduction up to ten
percent (10%) of the required parking spaces to accommodate existing trees
through the alternative compliance process in NPCC § 11-18A-2. Approval of an
alternative compliance application for a reduction in required parking shall be
obtained prior to submittal of plans. (Ord. 437, 5-20-2026)
11-4A-11: STORMWATER INTEGRATION:
   (A)   Purpose: The regulations of this section are intended to improve water
quality and provide a natural, effective form of flood and water pollution
control through the integration of vegetated, well-designed stormwater
filtration swales and other green stormwater facilities into required landscape
areas, where topography and hydrologic features allow.
   (B)   Applicability: The standards for stormwater integration shall apply to
all subdivisions and site improvements.
   (C)   Standards:
      1.   Stormwater swales incorporated into required landscape areas shall
be vegetated with grass or other appropriate plant materials. Such swales shall
also be designed to accommodate the required number of trees as per section
11-4A-7 of this Article if located in a street buffer or other required
landscape area.
      2.   A rock sump may be incorporated into a vegetated swale to facilitate
drainage. The rock sump inlet may not exceed more than five feet (5') in any
horizontal direction.
      3.   Gravel, rock, sand, or cobble stormwater facilities are not
permitted on the surface of required landscape areas, unless designed as a dry
creek bed or other design feature.
      4.   Plant materials shall be a species that are able to withstand the
anticipated changes in soil wetness and moisture levels.
      5.   Organic mulch shall not be used against drainage catch basins
because of potential sediment clogging.
      6.   Slopes shall be less than or equal to three to one (3:1)
(horizontal:vertical) for accessibility and maintenance.
      7.   The stormwater facility shall be designed free draining with no
standing water within forty-eight (48) hours of the completion of a storm
event. (Ord. 437, 5-20-2026)
11-4A-12: PATHWAY LANDSCAPING:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to promote trees and other
landscaping along pathways developed within the City. The required landscaping
will provide shade and visual interest along the pathways.
   (B)   Applicability: Wherever pathways are installed and/or required, the
landscaping standards within this section shall apply.
   (C)   Standards:
      1.   Planter Width: A landscape strip a minimum of five feet (5') wide
shall be provided along each side of the pathway. Designs are encouraged in
which the width of the landscape strip varies to provide additional width to
plant trees farther from the pathway, preventing root damage. The minimum width
of the landscape strip shall be two feet (2') to allow for maintenance of the
pathway. Alternative compliance as set forth in NPCC §11-18A-2 shall not be
required to meander the pathway as long as a total width of ten feet (10') of
landscaping is maintained along the pathway.
      2.   Required Plants: The landscape strips shall be planted with a mix of
trees, shrubs, lawn, and/or other vegetative ground cover. There shall be a
minimum of one (1) tree per one hundred (100) linear feet of pathway. If this
calculation results in a fraction of five (5) or greater, round up to an
additional tree; if the calculation results in a fraction of less than five
(5), round the number down.
      3.   Improvements: The pathway construction shall be in accordance with
the site-specific geotechnical report for light duty paving. In the cases where
no geotechnical report is available, pathways shall be built using two and one-
half inches (2.5") of asphaltic concrete over four inches (4") of crushed
aggregate base over ten inches (10") of structural subbase over compacted
subgrade. Materials and methods shall conform to ISPWC standard specifications.
      4.   Tree Branching Height: Trees along the pathway shall be pruned with
a clear branching height of at least eight feet (8') above the path surface.
      5.   Shrub Height: Shrubs are limited to three feet (3') high or less at
mature size to allow for safety provisions and sight distance.
      6.   Mulch: The solitary use of mulches, such as bark alone without
vegetative ground covers, is prohibited. Mulch under trees and shrubs is
required in accordance with subsection
11-4A-5(H) of this Article.
      7.   Prohibited Trees: No evergreen trees or Class III trees shall be
planted within the required landscape strips of less than ten feet (10')
because of safety, sight distance, and maintenance concerns.
      8.   Fences: Fences along pathways must comply with one (1) of the
following standards:
      (a)   An open vision or semiprivate fence up to six feet (6') in height;
      (b)   A closed vision fence four feet (4') in height or a closed vision
fence four feet (4') in height with an additional two feet (2') in height of
open vision fencing at the top of the fence; or
      (c)   A closed vision fence up to six feet (6') in height, if fully
visible from a public street. See Figure 1 of this section .
FIGURE 1
FENCE REGULATIONS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/62fd250a50858f3f623036b77def175715145d0b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1687.jpg]
 
   (Ord. 437, 5-20-2026)
11-4A-13: LANDSCAPE MAINTENANCE:
   (A)   Purpose: The regulations of this section are intended to ensure that
all required landscaping is maintained in a healthy, growing condition at all
times.
   (B)   Applicability: The requirement for landscape maintenance applies in
all zoning districts where landscaping is required.
   (C)   Standards:
      1.   Responsibility: The property owner is responsible for the
maintenance of all landscaping and screening devices as required by this
Article.
      2.   Topping Prohibited: Topping any street tree required by this Article
is prohibited.
      3.   Tree Grates: Tree grates shall be widened to accommodate the growing
tree trunk and prevent girdling of any trees planted in tree wells within
sidewalks or other public right-of-way.
      4.   Dead and Diseased Plant Materials: Plant materials that exhibit
evidence of insect pests, disease, and/or damage shall be appropriately treated
to correct the problem. Dead plant material shall be replaced.
      5.   Inspections: All landscaping required by this subsection may be
subject to periodic inspections by City officials to determine compliance or to
investigate.
      6.   Pruning: The lower branches of trees shall be pruned and maintained
at a minimum height of six feet (6') above the ground or walkway surface to
afford greater visibility of the area, except as otherwise required herein.
(Ord. 437, 5-20-2026)
11-4A-14: INSTALLATION:
   (A)   Certificate of Completion: A written certificate of completion shall
be prepared by the landscape architect, landscape designer or qualified
nurseryman responsible for the landscape plan upon completion of the landscape
installation. The certificate of completion shall verify that all landscape
improvements, including plant materials and sprinkler installation, are planted
and installed in substantial compliance with the approved landscape plan and
details.
   (B)   Installation Schedule:
      1.   All required landscaping, irrigation systems, and site features
shall be installed according to the approved landscape plan prior to issuance
of a final certificate of occupancy.
      2.   All pathways conveyed to the City for permanent maintenance, must be
inspected and compaction tested prior to the issuance of the certificate of
occupancy.
      3.   Private site improvements that are above and beyond the requirements
placed on the development do not require completion prior to occupancy
(example: a clubhouse in a residential development need not be completed prior
to occupancy of residences in the development).
      4.   For final plats, all landscape buffers along streets, with the
exception of local streets, shall be installed prior to signature on the final
plat. Street buffers on local streets may be installed at the time of the lot
development; installation of such improvements shall not be required at the
time of plat approval.
   (C)   Extension of Time for Installation:
      1.   Non-residential: The Administrator or designee may recommend
issuance of a certificate of occupancy for non-residential projects for a
specified period, not to exceed one hundred eight (180) days when:
         (a)   Due to inclement weather or other extenuating circumstances, the
landscaping or other required site amenities cannot be completed.
         (b)   The applicant has provided surety to the City for the required
improvements consistent with the provisions of NPCC § 12-5-3.
      2.   Residential: The Administrator or designee may recommend issuance of
a certificate of occupancy for residential dwelling units when:
         (a)   Due to inclement weather or other extenuating circumstances, the
landscaping or other required site amenities cannot be completed.
         (b)   The applicant has provided surety to the City for the required
improvements consistent with the provisions of NPCC § 12-5-3.
         (c)   Within ninety (90) days of the first certificate of occupancy
being issued, all required landscaping, irrigation systems, and site features
shall be installed, or additional certificate of occupancies will be withheld.
(Ord. 437, 5-20-2026)
**** ARTICLE B. COMMON OPEN SPACE AND SITE AMENITY REQUIREMENTS ****
SECTION:
11-4B-1: Purpose
11-4B-2: Applicability
11-4B-3: Standards For Common Open Space For Single-Family And Two-Family
Developments
11-4B-4: Standards For Site Amenities For Single-Family And Two-Family
Developments
11-4B-5: General Standards For Common Open Space And Site Amenities For Single-
Family And Two-Family Developments
11-4B-6: Common Open Space Design Requirements For Multi-Family Developments
11-4B-7: Site Development Amenities For Multi-Family Developments
11-4B-1: PURPOSE:
   (A)   To implement the goals and policies of the Comprehensive Plan.
   (B)   To provide for common open space and site amenities in residential
zoning districts and in areas designated as mixed-use in the Comprehensive Plan
that improve livability of residential neighborhoods, buffer the street edge,
provide alternatives to driving, and protect natural amenities.
   (C)   To establish minimum quantity and quality standards for common open
space and site amenities, and requirements for the long-term maintenance of
these areas. (Ord. 437, 5-20-2026)
11-4B-2: APPLICABILITY:
The standards for common open space and site amenities shall apply to all new
single-family and two-family developments of five (5) acres or more and to
multi-family developments. (Ord. 437, 5-20-2026)
11-4B-3: STANDARDS FOR COMMON OPEN SPACE FOR SINGLE-FAMILY AND TWO-FAMILY
DEVELOPMENTS:
   (A)   Open Space Minimum Requirements: The minimum requirements are based on
both the quantity and quality of open space provided.
      1.   Minimum Open Space Quantity Requirements: The total land area of all
common open space that meets the standards set forth in subsection (B) of this
section shall provide five percent (5%) common open space if the entire
development is comprised of buildable lots, a minimum of sixteen thousand
square feet (16,000 sf), not including landscape buffers along arterial or
collector roadways, or as shown in Table 11-4B-3-1. When a project is located
in more than one (1) zone, the calculation of the minimum required open space
shall be based on the land area in each zone, and the total for each zone shall
be combined for the minimum required open space for the entire project.
TABLE 11-4B-3-1
MINIMUM OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENTS
 
Zoning District Percentage Open Space
Residential A   12
Residential B   15
Residential C   15
 
      2.   Minimum Open Space Quality Requirements: All open space areas shall
meet the following quality standards:
         a.   The development plan shall demonstrate that the open space has
been integrated into the development as a priority and not for the use of land
after all other elements of the development have been designed. Open space
areas that have been given priority in the development design have direct:
            (1)   Direct pedestrian access;
            (2)   High visibility;
            (3)   Comply with Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design
(CPTED) standards; and
            (4)   Support a range of leisure and play activities and uses.
         (b)   Open space shall be accessible and well-connected throughout the
development. This quality can be shown with open spaces that are connected by
pathways that are visually accessible along collector streets or are a terminal
view from a street.
         (c)   The open space promotes the health and well-being of its
residents. Open space shall support active and passive uses for recreation,
social gathering and relaxation to serve the development.
   (B)   Qualified Open Space:
      1.   Active or Passive Open Spaces: Any open space that is active or
passive in its intended use, and accessible by all residents of the
development, including but not limited to:
         (a)   Open grassy area of at least five thousand square feet (5,000
sf) in area;
         (b)   Community garden(s);
         (c)   Natural waterways, open ditches, and laterals. Protective
buffers a minimum of ten feet (10') in width dedicated for active access along
these natural open spaces count toward meeting the open space minimum
requirements;
         (d)   Plaza with a minimum dimension of twenty feet (20') in all
directions and including hardscape, seating, lighting, and landscaping in
conformance with the requirements set forth in Article 11-4A of this Title; or
         (e)   Linear open space area that is at least twenty feet (20') and up
to fifty feet (50') in width, has an access at each end and is improved and
landscaped as set forth in Article 11-4A of this Title.
      2.   Additions to the land area of a public park or other public open
space area.
      3.   Buffer: One hundred percent (100%) of the landscape buffer along
collector streets and fifty percent (50%) of the landscape buffer along
arterial streets that meet the enhanced buffer requirements that follow may
count toward the required common open space.
         (a)   Enhanced landscaping as set forth in Article 11-4A of this
Title;
         (b)   Multi-use pathways;
         (c)   Enhanced amenities with social interaction characteristics;
         (d)   Enhanced context with the surroundings.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/62fd250a50858f3f623036b77def175715145d0b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1689.jpg]
 
      4.   Parkways Along Local Residential Streets: Parkways along local
residential streets that meet all of the following standards may count toward
the common open space requirement:
         (a)   The parkway meets the following standards:
            (1)   The minimum width of parkways planted with Class II trees
shall be eight feet (8').
            (2)   The width can be measured from the back of curb where there
is no likely expansion of the street section within the right-of-way.
            (3)   The parkway width shall exclude the width of the sidewalk.
            (4)   Class II trees are the preferred parkway trees.
         (b)   The parkway is planted with street trees in accord with section
11-4A-7 of this Title.
         (c)   Except for alley accessed dwelling units, the area for curb cuts
to each residential lot or common driveway shall be excluded from the open
space calculation. For purposes of this calculation, the curb cut area shall be
twenty-six feet (26') by the width of the parkway.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/62fd250a50858f3f623036b77def175715145d0b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1691.jpg]
 
      5.   Stormwater Detention Facilities: Stormwater detention facilities
when designed in accordance with section
11-4A-11 of this Title.
      6.   Open Water Ponds: Artificial open water ponds and holding areas when
developed with at least one (1) site amenity in accord with Table 11-4B-4 of
this Chapter. All ponds with a permanent water level shall meet the following
standards:
         (a)   The pond shall have recirculated water; and
         (b)   The pond shall be maintained such that it does not become a
mosquito breeding ground.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/62fd250a50858f3f623036b77def175715145d0b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1693.jpg]
 
(Ord. 437, 5-20-2026)
11-4B-4: STANDARDS FOR SITE AMENITIES FOR SINGLE-FAMILY AND TWO-FAMILY
DEVELOPMENTS:
   (A)   Site Amenities Minimum Standards: The minimum site amenity required is
based on the point value of the amenity as set forth in subsection (B) of this
section and the size of the development.
      1.   For each five (5) acres of gross land area, one (1) point of site
amenity is required. If the calculation of the number of required site
amenities results in a fraction, such number shall be rounded up or down to the
next whole number: fractions less than one-half (0.5) shall be rounded down to
the whole number and fractions which are one-half (0.5) and greater shall be
rounded up to the next higher whole number.
      2.   For projects forty (40) acres or more in size, multiple amenities
are required from the separate categories listed in Table 11-4B-4-1.
   (B)   Qualified Site Amenities:
      1.   Qualified site amenities shall include features listed in Table 11-
4B-4-1.
      2.   Through the alternative compliance provisions set forth in NPCC §
11-18A-2:
         (a)   Amenities not listed in Table 11-4B-4-1 may be considered.
         (b)   Amenities that are a centerpiece or of benefit to the entire
City; that creatively create a sense of uniqueness to the neighborhood; or
preserve or represent the historic context of the place may be substituted for
required open space as set forth in section
11-4B-3.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/62fd250a50858f3f623036b77def175715145d0b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1695.jpg]
 
TABLE 11-4B-4-1
SITE AMENITIES AND POINT VALUE
Site Amenity Point Value
Site Amenity                                                       Point Value
Quality of Life Amenities
   Business center                                              2
   Clubhouse 5,000 sf or greater in size                        6
   Clubhouse less than 5,000 or open air ramadas                3
   Semi-enclosed clubhouse                                      3
   Fitness facilities 5,000 sf or greater in size               4
   Fitness facilities less than 5,000 sf in size                2
   Locker rooms in association with clubhouse or fitness facilit2
   Public art                                                   1
   Fountain                                                     2
   Picnic area on a site 5,000 sf or greater in size            2
   Picnic area on a site less than 5,000 sf in size             1
   Fitness course                                               2
   Open space commons                                           3
   Open space commons shelter                                   2
   Communication infrastructure with fiber optic cable          2
   Dog park                                                     2
   Dog waste station                                            0.5
   Commercial outdoor kitchen                                   2
   Outdoor fire ring                                            1
   Mail cluster station, outdoor                                2
   Mail cluster station, indoor                                 3
Recreation Area Amenities
   Swimming pool                                                4
   Swimming pool changing facilities and restrooms              6
   Interactive splash pads/interactive fountains or water featur4s
   Tot lot                                                      1
   Playground                                                   3
   Sports court, paved                                          4
   Sports court, unpaved                                        2
   Sports fields                                                5
Pedestrian or Bicycle Circulation System Amenities
   When aligned with a waterway                                 1 per ¼ mile
   When aligned with a linear open space                        1 per ¼ mile
   Multi-use pathways                                           2 per ¼ mile
Multi-Modal Amenities
   Sheltered school bus or transit stop                         2
 
   (C)   Quality of Life Amenity Standards:
      1.   Clubhouse is an enclosed or semi-enclosed space (including open air
or ramadas) for neighborhood events and support facilities for recreation. The
points for a clubhouse may be combined with the points for other amenities that
may be located within the clubhouse, including fitness and business centers,
sports courts, swimming pools, and/or locker rooms.
      2.   Fitness facilities are an enclosed space equipped with commercial
grade sports exercise equipment.
      3.   Public art is custom designed for the site size, location, and
surrounding setting.
      4.   Fountain is custom designed for the site size, location, and
surrounding setting.
      5.   Picnic area includes tables, benches, landscaping and a structure
for shade.
      6.   Fitness course includes a minimum of six (6) stations permanently
installed.
      7.   Open space commons of at least twenty thousand square feet (20,000
sf), which is surrounded on all sides by the front yards of lots. Intervening
streets may be located between the open space and lots.
      8.   Communication infrastructure with two (2) conduits running side-by-
side to and through the development, each conduit being two inches (2") in
diameter.
      9.   Dog park with:
         (a)   Bags for dog waste disposal;
         (b)   Double entrance gate;
         (c)   Bench(es); and
         (d)   Fencing to enclose a minimum of five thousand square feet (5,000
sf) and secured open space for an off-leash dog park.
         The open space shall count toward any required open space.
      10.   Dog waste station is an installed, in-the-ground fixture with waste
disposal bags and trash receptacle.
      11.   Neighborhood business center meeting the following standards:
         (a)   The area devoted to the business center shall not exceed one
thousand square feet (1,000 sf).
         (b)   The business center shall provide access to high-speed internet,
fiber optic cable, or communication infrastructure and/or facilities with a
minimum capacity equivalent to a thirty-six (36)-strand single mode fiber optic
cable.
         (c)   The business center shall, at a minimum, provide workspaces for
three (3) people, a meeting space for six (6) people, and access to printing
facilities.
         (d)   The business center may be leased to a private entity for
operation and maintenance; however, the property shall be owned by the owner's
association.
         (e)   The business center operator may charge fees for use or
membership; however, members of the owner's association should be given
priority in use of the business center.
      12.   Commercial outdoor kitchen is an outdoor or semi-enclosed space
that includes commercial grade appliances for food preparation and sink with
utility connections.
      13.   Outdoor fire ring that meets fire safety standards, is located on a
non-combustable surface and included fixed seating.
      14.   Outdoor mail cluster station(s) must include either a drive through
or parking area for at least three (3) cars and house mailboxes for all
residences in the development. For developments with over fifty (50) residents,
additional cluster stations may be added.
      15.   Indoor mail cluster stations must include parking for at least
three (3) cars and the mail station shall be meet all requirements of the
Building Code.
   (D)   Recreation Activity Area Amenity Standards:
      1.   Swimming pool constructed in the ground and meeting all Building
Code requirements.
      2.   Interactive splash pads, fountains, or other water features are
permanent, commercial grade constructed with filtration systems.
      3.   Tot lot with commercial grade play equipment scaled and designed for
the use and safety of younger children. Benches for seating shall be nearby.
      4.   Playground on a site with a minimum size of five thousand square
feet (5,000 sf) and including benches for seating and multiple commercial grade
play structures.
      5.   Sports court with markings and including benches for seating. Sports
courts may include tennis, basketball, pickleball, horseshoes, bocce ball, or
golf putting.
      6.   Sports fields for neighborhood scaled sports activities.
   (E)   Pedestrian or Bicycle Circulation System Amenity Standards: The
system:
      1.   Is not required where sidewalks are adjacent to public right-of-way;
      2.   Connects to existing or planned pedestrian or bicycle routes outside
the development, as may be designated in City master plans; and
      3.   Is designed and constructed in accordance with City standards.
   (F)   Multi-Modal Amenity Standards: Sheltered school bus or transit stop is
covered with a roof and transparent enclosure on three (3) sides. (Ord. 437, 5-
20-2026)
11-4B-5: GENERAL STANDARDS FOR COMMON OPEN SPACE AND AMENITIES FOR SINGLE-
FAMILY AND TWO-FAMILY DEVELOPMENTS:
   (A)   Location:
      1.   Common open space shall be grouped contiguously with open space from
adjacent developments whenever feasible.
      2.   Common open space and site amenities shall be located in areas of
high visibility (i.e., along streets, where doors and windows overlook public
areas, etc.) to avoid hidden areas and corners, dark areas, unusable space and
recue the opportunity for crime.
      3.   Common open space shall be located in areas that maximize pedestrian
and bicycle connectivity within and outside the neighborhood.
   (B)   Improvements and Landscaping:
      1.   Common open space shall be suitably improved for its intended use,
except that natural features such as wetlands, rock outcroppings, natural
waterways and riparian areas, open ditches, and laterals may be left
unimproved.
      2.   Common open space shall comply with the applicable landscaping
requirements set forth in Article 11-4A of this Title.
      3.   At a minimum, common open space areas shall include one (1)
deciduous shade tree for every five thousand square feet (5,000 sf) of area and
include a variety of trees, shrubs, lawn, or other vegetative ground cover.
   (C)   Maintenance:
      1.   The common open spaces and site amenities shall be located on a
common lot or an area with a common maintenance agreement.
      2.   Maintenance and operation of the open space and site amenities shall
be the responsibility of the property owners' or homeowners' association.
      3.   Land dedicated as common open spaced may be conveyed to the City
when the City agrees to accept conveyance and when the common open space area
is in the public interest and complies with one (1) of the following:
         (a)   The land is adjacent to an established or planned City park;
         (b)   The land is adjacent to an existing or planned school or school
athletic facilities; or
         (c)   The land connects to a regional pathway. (Ord. 437, 5-20-2026)
11-4B-6: COMMON OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENTS FOR MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENTS:
   (A)   The total baseline land area of all qualified common open space shall
equal or exceed ten percent (10%) of the gross land area for multi-family
developments of five (5) acres or more. When multi-family is approved
concurrently with single-family, the minimum open space requirements in section
11-4B-3 of this chapter shall apply to the gross land area of entire
development.
   (B)   All common space shall meet the following standards:
      1.   The development plan shall demonstrate that the open space has been
integrated into the development as a priority and not for the use of land after
all other elements of the development have been designed. Open space areas that
have been given priority in the development design have:
         (a)   Direct pedestrian access;
         (b)   High visibility;
         (c)   Comply with Crime Prevention Through Design (CTED) standards;
and
         (d)   Support a range of leisure and play activities and uses.
Irregular shaped, disconnected, or isolated open spaces shall not meet this
standard.
      2.   Open space shall be accessible and well-connected throughout the
development. This quality can be shown with open spaces that are centrally
located within the development, accessible by pathway, and visually accessible
along collector streets or as a terminal view from a street.
      3.   The open space promotes the health and well-being of its residents.
Open space shall support active and passive uses for recreation, social
gathering, and relaxation to serve the development.
   (C)   All multi-family projects over twenty (20) units shall provide at
least one (1) common grassy area integrated into the site design allowing for
general activities by all ages. This area may be included in the minimum
required open space total. Projects that provide safe access to adjacent public
parks or parks under a common homeowner's association, without crossing an
arterial roadway, are exempt from this standard.
      1.   The minimum size of the common grassy area shall be at least five
thousand square feet (5,000 sf) in area. This area shall increase
proportionately as the number of units increase and shall be commensurate to
the size of the multi-family development as determined by the decision-making
body. Where this area cannot be increased due to site constraints, it may be
included elsewhere in the development.
   (D)   In addition to the baseline open space requirement, a minimum of
outdoor common space shall be provided as follows:
      1.   One hundred fifty square feet (150 sf) for each unit containing five
hundred (500) or less square feet of living area.
      2.   Two hundred fifty square feet (250 sf) for each unit containing more
than five hundred square feet (500 sf) and up to one thousand two hundred
square feet (1,200 sf) of living area.
      3.   Three hundred fifty square feet (350 sf) for each unit containing
more than one thousand two hundred square feet (1,200 sf) of living area.
   (E)   Common open space shall not be less than four hundred square feet (400
sf) in area and shall have a minimum length and width dimension of twenty feet
(20').
   (F)   In phased developments, common open space shall be provided in each
phase of the development consistent with the requirements for the size and
number of dwelling units.
   (G)   Unless otherwise approved through the conditional use process, common
open space areas shall not be adjacent to collector or arterial street buffers
unless separated from the street by a berm or constructed barrier at least four
feet (4') in height, with breaks in the berm or barrier to allow for pedestrian
access.
   (H)   Buffers: One hundred percent (100%) of the landscape buffer along
collector streets and fifty percent (50%) of the landscape buffer along
arterial streets that meet the enhanced buffer standards below may count
towards the required baseline open space.
      1.   Enhanced landscaping as set forth in Article 11-4A of this Chapter;
      2.   Multi-use pathways;
      3.   Enhanced amenities with social interaction characteristics; or
      4.   Enhanced context with the surroundings. (Ord. 437, 5-20-2026)
11-4B-7: SITE DEVELOPMENT AMENITIES FOR MULTI-FAMILY DEVELOPMENTS:
   (A)   All multi-family developments shall provide for quality of life, open
space, and recreation amenities to meet the particular needs of the residents
as follows:
      1.   Quality of Life:
         (a)   Clubhouse;
         (b)   Fitness facilities;
         (c)   Enclosed bike storage;
         (d)   Public art such as a statue;
         (e)   Dog park with waste station;
         (f)   Commercial outdoor kitchen;
         (g)   Fitness course; or
         (h)   Enclosed storage.
      2.   Open Space:
         (a)   Community garden;
         (b)   Ponds or water features;
         (c)   Plaza;
         (d)   Picnic area including tables, benches, landscaping, and a
structure for shade.
      3.   Recreation:
         (a)   Swimming pool;
         (b)   Walking trails;
         (c)   Children's play structures; or
         (d)   Sports courts, including tennis, pickleball, horseshoes, or
bocce ball.
      4.   Multi-Modal Amenity Standards:
         (a)   Bicycle repair station; or
         (b)   Sheltered school bus or transit stop.
   (B)   The number of amenities shall depend on the size of multi-family
development as follows:
      1.   For multi-family developments with less than twenty (20) units, two
(2) amenities shall be provided from two (2) separate categories.
      2.   For multi-family developments between twenty (20) and seventy-five
(75) units, three (3) amenities shall be provided, with one (1) from each
category.
      3.   For multi-family developments with seventy-five (75) units or more,
four (4) amenities shall be provided, with at least one (1) from each category.
      4.   For multi-family developments with more than one hundred (100)
units, the decision-making body shall require additional amenities commensurate
to the size of the proposed development.
   (C)   The decision-making body shall be authorized to consider other
improvements in addition to those provided under this section, provided that
these improvements provide a similar level of amenity. (Ord. 437, 5-20-2026)
***** CHAPTER 5
RESIDENCE A ZONE *****
SECTION:
11-5-1: Use Regulations
11-5-2: Building Height
11-5-3: Areas
11-5-4: Dwelling Standards
11-5-1: USE REGULATIONS:
The following uses shall be permitted in the Residence A Zone:
One-family dwelling; truck gardening and other horticultural uses, where no
building is involved and not operated for profit; golf courses, except driving
tees, ranges, miniature courses and similar uses operated for commercial
purposes.
Conditional uses may be permitted within any "use district" subject to specific
provisions of this title.
Airport, landing field or landing strip.
Bus terminals, railroad passenger station or any other transportation terminal
facilities.
Cemeteries, crematories or mausoleums.
Churches and accessory buildings used for religious teaching.
Extraction of gravel, sand or other raw materials.
Golf courses, public or private.
Home occupations.
Hospitals or sanitariums.
Institutions for the care of the insane or feebleminded.
Municipal or privately owned recreation buildings or a community center.
Nursery schools, day nurseries and child care centers, provided there is a
minimum of one hundred (100) square feet of outdoor play area for each child to
be cared for, and that the play area is fenced or screened from any adjoining
lot in any residence zone with planting.
Parking area, public.
Police stations, fire stations or place for storage of Municipal equipment.
Public administration building, auditorium, gymnasium or any other publicly
owned structure.
Public or private park or playground.
Public utility facilities, filtration plant or pumping station, heat or power
plant, transformer station and other similar facilities.
Radio and television antenna towers, commercial.
Railroad right-of-way.
Schools, public or private.
Telephone exchange.
Accessory buildings, provided they shall be located as required by this title;
temporary buildings and uses for construction purposes for a period not to
exceed one year. (Ord., 5-7-1984)
11-5-2: BUILDING HEIGHT:
No building or structure, nor the enlargement of any building or structure,
shall be hereafter erected or maintained in the Residence A Zone to exceed two
and one-half (21/2) stories, nor shall it exceed thirty five feet (35') in
height. (Ord., 5-7-1984)
11-5-3: AREAS:
No building or structure, nor the enlargement of any building or structure in
the Residence A Zone shall be hereafter erected or maintained unless the
following described yards and lot areas are provided and maintained in
connection with such building, structure or enlargement.
   (A)   Front Yard: Each lot upon which a dwelling is constructed shall have a
front yard of not less than twenty five feet (25').
   (B)   Side Yard:
      1.   On interior lots there shall be a side yard on each side of a main
building of not less than eight feet (8').
      2.   On corner lots the exterior side yard shall be twenty five feet
(25'), the same as the front setback. The rear setback shall be eight feet
(8'), the same as the interior side setback.
   (C)   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard having an average depth of not
less than twenty feet (20').
   (D)   Lot Area: Every dwelling erected or structurally altered shall be on a
lot having an area of not less than ten thousand (10,000) square feet and a
width at the established building line of not less than seventy five feet
(75'); provided, however, that a single lot having less area and width, the
title to which has been recorded before the enactment of this chapter, may be
improved with a single-family dwelling provided all yards and open spaces are
within seventy five percent (75%) of those required herein; and, provided
further, the total lot area is not less than seven thousand five hundred
(7,500) square feet.
   (E)   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings shall not encroach upon the
front yard. They may encroach upon the side yards; provided, no buildings are
closer to the lot lines than five feet (5'), as required by the International
Residential Code; provided further, that on a corner lot, accessory buildings
shall not encroach upon the front or side yards adjacent to the abutting
streets. (Ord. 368, 2-5-2018)
11-5-4: DWELLING STANDARDS:
   (A)   Every one-story dwelling erected in any Residence A Zone shall have a
total ground floor area of not less than one thousand three hundred fifty
(1,350) square feet measured from the outside of the exterior walls, including
utility rooms, but excluding cellars, basements, open porches, garages and
other spaces that are not used frequently or during extended periods for
living, eating or sleeping purposes, except that rooms intended for such
purposes which are "roughed in" and are to be completed within a reasonable
time may be considered in computing such ground floor area.
   (B)   Every dwelling of more than one story erected in any Residence A Zone
shall have a total floor area, measured from the outside of the exterior walls,
of not less than one thousand six hundred eighty (1,680) square feet, including
utility rooms, but excluding cellars, basements, open porches, garages and
other spaces that are not used frequently or during extended periods for
living, eating or sleeping purposes, except that rooms intended for such
purposes which are "roughed in" and are to be completed within a reasonable
time may be considered in computing such ground floor areas. (Ord., 5-7-1984)
***** CHAPTER 6
RESIDENCE B ZONE *****
SECTION:
11-6-1: Use Regulations
11-6-2: Height
11-6-3: Areas
11-6-4: Dwelling Standards
11-6-1: USE REGULATIONS:
The following uses shall be permitted in the Residence B Zone:
Any use permitted in the Residence A Zone.
Two-family dwelling structures.
Conditional uses, subject to the following uses of land or structures, or both,
may be permitted within any "use district" subject to specific provisions of
this title:
Airport, landing field or landing strip.
Bed and breakfast; provided, however, any bed and breakfast allowed under this
section shall be limited as follows: a) there shall be no more than eight (8)
rooms dedicated as guest rooms; b) there shall be no more than fifteen (15)
people in the facility as guests at the same time; c) signs shall not exceed
three feet by two feet (3' x 2'); d) signs shall not create a sight restriction
on any street; e) any facility shall retain its residential appearance; f)
adequate parking facilities shall be provided and neighbors' street parking
shall not be impinged upon; g) the commission or the Council may impose any
conditions which would protect surrounding residential uses.
Bus terminals, railroad passenger station or any other transportation terminal
facilities.
Cemeteries, crematories or mausoleums.
Churches and accessory buildings used for religious teaching.
Extraction of gravel, sand or other raw materials.
Golf courses, public or private.
Home occupations.
Hospitals or sanitariums.
Institutions for the care of the insane or feeble-minded.
Mobile home.
Municipal or privately owned recreation buildings or a community center.
Nursery schools, day nurseries and child care centers, provided there is a
minimum of one hundred (100) square feet of outdoor play area for each child to
be cared for, and that the play area is fenced or screened from any adjoining
lot in any residence zone with planting.
Parking area, public.
Police stations, fire stations or place for storage of Municipal equipment.
Public administration building, auditorium, gymnasium or any other publicly
owned structure.
Public or private park or playground.
Public utility facilities, filtration plant or pumping station, heat or power
plant, transformer station and other similar facilities.
Radio and television antenna towers, commercial.
Railroad right-of-way.
Schools, public or private.
Telephone exchange. (Ord. 240, 8-18-1997)
11-6-2: HEIGHT:
No building shall be erected or enlarged in the Residence B Zone to exceed a
height of two and one-half (21/2) stories, nor shall it exceed thirty five feet
(35') in height. (Ord., 5-7-1984)
11-6-3: AREAS:
No building shall be erected nor shall any existing structure, be enlarged or
altered in the Residence B Zone unless the following yards and lot areas are
provided and maintained in connection with such building, structure or
enlargement:
   (A)   Front Yard: Twenty five feet (25').
   (B)   Side Yard: Eight feet (8').
   (C)   Rear Yard: Twenty feet (20').
   (D)   Lot Area: Every dwelling erected or structurally altered to
accommodate two-family dwelling units shall be on a lot having a width at the
established building line of not less than sixty feet (60') and an area per
dwelling unit of not less than three thousand seven hundred fifty feet
(3,750'). One-family dwellings may be erected or structurally altered on lots
having an area of not less than five thousand (5,000) square feet and a width
at the established building line of not less than fifty feet (50').
   (E)   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings shall not encroach upon the
front yard. They may encroach upon the side yards; provided, no buildings are
closer to the lot lines than five feet (5'), as required by the International
Residential Code.
   (F)   Corner Lots: On corner lots the exterior side yard shall be twenty
five feet (25'), the same as the front setback. The rear setback shall be eight
feet (8'), the same as the interior side setback. (Ord. 368, 2-5-2018)
11-6-4: DWELLING STANDARDS:
   (A)   Each family dwelling unit in two-family structures erected, converted
or reconstructed in any Residence B Zone shall have a total ground floor area
of not less than six hundred fifty (650) square feet measured from the outside
of the exterior walls, including utility rooms but excluding cellars,
basements, open porches, garages and other spaces that are not used frequently
or during extended periods for living, sleeping or eating purposes, except that
rooms intended for such purposes which are "roughed in" and are to be completed
within a reasonable time may be considered in computing such ground floors
areas.
   (B)   Every dwelling of more than one story erected, converted or
reconstructed in any Residence B Zone shall have a total floor area, measured
from the outside of the exterior walls, of not less than eight hundred fifty
(850) square feet including utility rooms, but excluding cellars, basements,
open porches, garages and other spaces that are not used frequently or during
extended periods for living, sleeping or eating purposes, except that rooms
intended for such purposes which are "roughed in" and are to be completed
within a reasonable time may be considered in computing such ground floor
areas. (Ord., 5-7-1984)
***** CHAPTER 7
RESIDENCE C ZONE *****
SECTION:
11-7-1: Use Regulations
11-7-2: Height
11-7-3: Area
11-7-4: Dwelling Standards
11-7-1: USE REGULATIONS:
The following uses shall be permitted in the Residence C Zone:
Any use permitted in the Residence A and B Zones.
Multiple dwellings and apartments; boarding or lodging houses.
Nursing or rest homes; clubs, lodges or fraternal organizations when not
operated for profit.
Row dwellings containing three (3) or more family units.
Two-family dwelling structures.
Conditional uses, subject to the following uses of land or structures, or both,
may be permitted within any "use district" subject to specific provisions of
this title.
Airport, landing field or landing strip.
Areas for dumping or disposal of trash or garbage.
Bus terminals, railroad passenger station or any other transportation terminal
facilities.
Cemeteries, crematories or mausoleums.
Churches and accessory buildings used for religious teaching.
Extraction of gravel, sand or other raw materials.
Golf courses, public or private.
Home occupations.
Hospitals or sanitariums.
Institutions for the care of the insane or feebleminded.
Mobile home.
Municipal or privately owned recreation buildings or a community center.
Nursery schools, day nurseries and child care centers, provided there is a
minimum of one hundred (100) square feet of outdoor play area for each child to
be cared for, and that the play area is fenced or screened from any adjoining
lot in any residence zone with planting.
Parking area, public.
Police stations, fire stations or place for storage of Municipal equipment.
Public administration building, auditorium, gymnasium or any other publicly
owned structure.
Public or private park or playground.
Public utility facilities, filtration plant or pumping station, heat or power
plant transformer station and other similar facilities.
Radio and television antenna towers, commercial.
Railroad right-of-way.
Schools, public or private.
Telephone exchange. (Ord., 5-7-1984; amd. Ord. 163, 11-5-1984, eff. 11-14-1984)
11-7-2: HEIGHT:
No building shall hereafter be erected or structurally altered in the Residence
C Zone to exceed two and one-half (21/2) stories nor shall it exceed thirty
five feet (35') in height. (Ord., 5-7-1984)
11-7-3: AREA:
No building or structure nor the enlargement of any building or structure shall
be hereafter erected or maintained in the Residence C Zone unless the following
yards or lot areas are provided and maintained in connection with such
structures or enlargements:
   (A)   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard of not less than twenty five
feet (25').
   (B)   Side Yard:
      1.   On interior lots there shall be a side yard on each side of a main
building of not less than eight feet (8').
      2.   On corner lots the exterior side yard shall be twenty five feet
(25'), the same as the front setback. The rear setback shall be eight feet
(8'), the same as the interior side setback.
   (C)   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard of not less than twenty feet
(20').
   (D)   Lot Area: Every building erected or structurally altered as a multiple
dwelling, apartment or row dwelling of more than two (2) dwelling units shall
provide a lot area per dwelling unit of not less than one thousand five hundred
(1,500) square feet. No building erected or structurally altered shall have a
total lot area of less than six thousand (6,000) square feet, nor a lot width
of less than sixty feet (60') except that single-family dwellings may be
erected or structurally altered on lots having an area of not less than four
thousand (4,000) square feet and a width at the established building line of
not less than forty feet (40').
   (E)   Accessory Buildings: All setbacks shall conform to the setback
requirements of the International Residential Code. (Ord. 368, 2-5-2018)
11-7-4: DWELLING STANDARDS:
All multiple-family dwelling units erected, converted or reconstructed shall
contain not less than three hundred (300) square feet of usable floor area,
exclusive of basements, cellars, unfinished attics, open porches and garages.
(Ord., 5-7-1984)
***** CHAPTER 8
COMMERCIAL D ZONE *****
SECTION:
11-8-1: Use Regulations
11-8-2: Conditional Uses
11-8-3: Height
11-8-4: Areas
11-8-1: USE REGULATIONS:
The following uses shall be permitted in the commercial D zone:
Agricultural implement sales and service conducted wholly within completely
enclosed buildings.
Apartments, provided they are located above the first floor and above a
business use permitted in this district.
Auction rooms.
Auditoriums.
Beverage distributors, but not including bottling plants.
Billiard and pool rooms.
Business and professional offices.
Churches.
Hotels.
Launderettes and laundromats.
Meat market or poultry stores, if no slaughter or stripping is involved.
Motels.
Parking lots.
Pet shops or animal hospitals when conducted wholly within enclosed buildings.
Places of amusement.
Printing and bookbinding.
Restaurants.
Retail commercial business.
Schools.
Tavern or retail sale of alcoholic liquors, subject to the regulations of other
provisions of this code.
Temporary buildings incidental only to construction of a permitted use.
Theaters, indoors (not including outdoor theaters).
Tourist homes.
Undertaking establishments.
Wholesale commercial business. (Ord. 220, 5-15-1995; amd. Ord. 418, - -2022)
11-8-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
   (A)   Automobile or trailer sales lots, ministorages and the other
conditional uses allowed in prior chapters of this title, may be permitted in
the commercial D zone whenever such use is specifically authorized by the
zoning commission.
   (B)   Ministorage units shall not be used for storage of corrosive,
hazardous or flammable materials, toxic wastes or any other substances which
could create a health hazard. (Ord. 277, 9-16-2002)
11-8-3: HEIGHT:
No building or structure shall be erected or structurally altered in the
commercial D zone to exceed a height of three (3) stories nor shall it exceed
forty five feet (45') in height. (Ord., 5-7-1984)
11-8-4: AREAS:
No front or side yards shall be required except that when a building or group
of buildings abuts upon a residential district, a yard shall be provided on the
side of the lot abutting the residential district, such yard having a width of
not less than ten feet (10'). There shall be a rear yard with a depth of not
less than fifteen feet (15') when abutting upon a public thoroughfare and not
less than twenty feet (20') when no dedicated alley or public way exists at the
rear of the lot. The rear yard may be used for off street parking and loading
as provided in this title 1 . (Ord., 5-7-1984)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 12 of this title.
***** CHAPTER 9
INDUSTRIAL E ZONE *****
SECTION:
11-9-1: Use Regulations
11-9-2: Height
11-9-3: Areas
11-9-1: USE REGULATIONS:
The following uses shall be permitted in the Industrial E Zone:
Manufacturing
Wholesaling
Parking lots
Processing, food
Processing, materials
Maintenance shops
Machine shops
Storage
Any other manufacturing or processing establishment that can be operated
without creating objectionable noise, odor, dust, smoke, gas, fumes or vapors
and that has a use compatible with the use and occupancy of adjoining
properties.
Mobile homes may be permitted through a conditional use permit. (Ord. 220, 5-
15-1995)
11-9-2: HEIGHT:
No building or structure shall be erected or structurally altered in the
Industrial E Zone to exceed a height of three (3) stories nor shall it exceed
forty five feet (45') in height except as provided in this Title. (Ord., 5-7-
1984)
11-9-3: AREAS:
The maximum ground area occupied by all buildings in the Industrial E Zone
shall be not more than seventy five percent (75%) of the area of the lot or
tract on which a building permit has been issued.
   (A)   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard having a depth of not less
than fifty feet (50') where there shall be no structure of any kind, open
storage of materials nor equipment.
   (B)   Side Yard: There shall be a minimum side yard of not less than five
feet (5') and a combined total of not less than fifteen feet (15') on both
sides of the building or buildings, but where the property is adjacent to a
residence zone there shall be a side yard of not less than twenty five feet
(25') on the side nearest to the residential lot. The parking of private
automobiles may be permitted within the side yard areas, but not closer than
five feet (5') to any lot zoned for residential use.
   (C)   Rear Yard: A rear yard is not required except where a lot abuts upon a
residence zone in which case there shall be a rear yard of not less than twenty
five feet (25') and no materials or equipment shall be stored within twenty
five feet (25') of any residential lot or lots. (Ord., 5-7-84)
***** CHAPTER 10
MOBILE HOME ZONE "T" *****
SECTION:
11-10-1: Mobile Homes Restricted
11-10-2: Definitions
11-10-3: Site Selections
11-10-4: Site Improvements
11-10-5: Site Planning
11-10-6: Mobile Home Space Sizes
11-10-7: Spacing of Mobile Homes
11-10-8: Roads, Walks and Parking Areas
11-10-9: Service Buildings
11-10-10: Laundry Drying Facilities
11-10-11: Refuse Collection
11-10-12: Recreation Areas
11-10-13: Site Engineering
11-10-14: Mobile Homes; Restricted Parking
11-10-15: Internal Roads Not Meeting City Standards
11-10-1: MOBILE HOMES RESTRICTED:
Except as provided in Chapter 6, Section
11-6-1, Chapter 7, Section
11-7-1 and Chapter 9, Section
11-9-1, mobile homes and mobile home courts, parks and subdivisions shall
hereafter be restricted to location and use as specified in this Chapter of the
zoning law. (Ord. 163, 11-5-84, eff. 11-14-84)
11-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
Every mobile home and mobile home court, park or subdivision hereafter
installed or constructed shall conform to the following provisions:
MOBILE HOME: A detached single-family dwelling unit with all of the following
characteristics:
   A.   Designed for long-term occupancy and containing sleeping
accommodations, a flush toilet, a tub or shower bath and kitchen facilities
with plumbing and electrical connections provided for attachment to outside
system.
   B.   Designed to be transported after fabrication on its own wheels, or a
flatbed or other trailers or detached wheels.
   C.   Arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling, usually
including major appliances and furniture and ready for occupancy except for
minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, such as location on
foundation supports, connection to utilities and the like. (Ord. 165, 1-7-85)
   D.   Excluding from the definition of mobile home any structure greater than
twenty feet (20') in width and having six hundred (600) or more square feet of
floor space on one floor. (Ord. 174, 9-3-86)
MOBILE HOME COURT: Any site or tract of land whereupon two (2) or more mobile
homes or travel trailers are placed, located and maintained for dwelling
purposes on a temporary basis.
MOBILE HOME PARK: Any site or tract of land upon which two (2) or more mobile
homes are parked on a permanent or semi- permanent basis, either free of charge
or for revenue purposes; including any roadway, building, structure, vehicle or
enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the facilities of such park.
MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION: Any parcel of land which may be divided or proposed to
be divided in accordance with the definition of subdivision, whereupon one or
more mobile homes shall be placed.
11-10-3: SITE SELECTIONS:
   (A)   Location: A mobile home court, park or subdivision shall not be
located close to swamps, or other potential breeding places of insects or
rodents, subject to flooding, fire, or other hazards or exposed to chronic
nuisances, such as noise, smoke, fumes, and odors. The site should be bounded
on at least one side by a public street or highway.
   (B)   Topography: The topography must be favorable to good site drainage,
minimum grading, trailer placement and ease of maintenance.
   (C)   Availability of Utilities: The site must be readily accessible to
public utilities, including water, sewerage, electricity.
   (D)   Necessary Land Area: The area of a mobile home park or court must be
sufficient in size to accommodate the number of mobile home spaces desired,
roads and parking areas for motor vehicles, service areas, buildings and
playgrounds and on-site utilities where public utilities are not available.
11-10-4: SITE IMPROVEMENTS:
The physical improvements of the site must be arranged to provide a convenient
means of pedestrian and vehicular access to each mobile home space, parking
areas, accessory buildings, an adequate supply of potable water, a safe method
of sewage disposal, electrical service for lighting and power and diversion of
surface water away from buildings, mobile home spaces, service and recreation
areas and its disposal from the site.
11-10-5: SITE PLANNING:
A plan of the proposed mobile home court or park must be developed for approval
of the Engineer or other official indicating the layout of mobile home spaces,
roads, walks, service buildings, service areas, utilities, and necessary
grading.
11-10-6: MOBILE HOME SPACE SIZES:
Each mobile home space must be not less than one thousand two hundred fifty
(1,250) square feet in area and should be at least twenty five feet (25') wide.
11-10-7: SPACING OF MOBILE HOMES:
The minimum spacing between mobile homes or between mobile homes and buildings
must be:
   (A)   Side-to-side spacing: Fifteen feet (15').
   (B)   End-to-end spacing: Ten feet (10'), space between end of mobile home
bodies and not chassis.
   (C)   No mobile home should be located closer than twenty five feet (25')
from the right-of-way line of a main highway, or ten feet (10') from the mobile
home court property line.
11-10-8: ROADS, WALKS AND PARKING AREAS:
   (A)   General Circulation: Safety and convenience must be a major
consideration in the layout of roads, walks and parking areas within the mobile
home court. All roads must be continuous.
   (B)   Servicing: Suitable vehicular access for firefighting equipment,
delivery of fuel, removal of garbage and refuse, and for other necessary
services must be provided. Minimum services distances as required by local
regulations or accepted practice must control.
   (C)   Width of Roads and Parking Areas: Main access roads, excluding
parking, two (2) lane, twenty feet (20'). The same number of motor vehicle
parking spaces must be provided as the number of mobile home spaces. These must
be provided in special parking areas.
   (D)   Walks:
      1.   The mobile home park or court walk system must include a walk from
the entrance of each mobile home to service facilities.
      2.   Width of walks: Public walks, minimum four feet (4'); entrance walks
(from public walk to mobile home door), two feet (2').
11-10-9: SERVICE BUILDINGS:
Each mobile home court or park must be provided with one or more service
buildings containing the requisite number of plumbing fixtures and other
service equipment. The service buildings must conform in general to the
following requirements.
   (A)   Location: The building should be located not more than two hundred
feet (200') from any dependent mobile home space.
   (B)   Construction: The materials and methods used in the construction of
service buildings must conform to the Building Code 1  for buildings of this
nature. It must have an interior finish which is moisture resistant and can be
easily cleaned. All rooms of service buildings must be ventilated and all
exterior openings provided with screens.
   (C)   Facilities: Separate men's and women's toilet rooms must be provided
and distinctly marked. These rooms must be separated by a sound resistant wall.
A vestibule or screen wall must be provided to prevent direct view into the
toilet rooms when exterior doors are open.
   (D)   Plumbing Fixtures:
      1.   Every mobile home court must provide adequate toilet and laundry
facilities. In no instance should there be less than one laundry unit (laundry
tray or washing machine); one water closet, one lavatory and one shower for
women and one water closet, one lavatory and one shower for men. A slop water
closet (water closet with seat removed) must be provided in each service
building. The slop water closet should be in a separate room of the service
building with a single direct opening to the outside.
      2.   The facilities listed hereinabove will accommodate any number of
independent mobile homes, and up to ten (10) dependent mobile homes. One water
closet must be provided for each sex for every ten (10) additional dependent
mobile homes. (Urinals for men may be substituted for one-third (1/3) of these
water closets.)
      3.   One lavatory must be provided for each sex for every ten (10)
additional dependent mobile homes and one shower or bathtub for each sex for
every twenty (20) additional dependent mobile homes. A laundry unit must be
provided for every twenty (20) additional mobile home spaces.
      4.   All water closets and bathtub or showers for women, and all water
closets and bathtub or showers for men must be located in separate
compartments, with self closing doors. Gang type shower compartments may be
used for men. Individual shower stalls must be approximately three by three
feet (3' x 3'). Showers for women must have a dressing compartment with stool
or bench. The room containing the laundry units must be separated from the
toilet rooms, and have an exterior entrance only.
      5.   All plumbing installations shall conform to the Plumbing Code. 2
      6.   All electrical installations shall conform to the Electrical Code. 3
   (E)   Heating facilities capable of maintaining a temperature of seventy
degrees (70) Fahrenheit in cold weather shall be provided.
   (F)   Hot Water: Facilities should provide for the continuous supply of
three (3) to five (5) gallons of hot water per mobile home space. Hot water at
a temperature of about one hundred eighty degrees (180) Fahrenheit should be
provided for clothes washing equipment.
 
Notes
1 1. See Title IV, Chapter 1.
2 1. See Title IV, Chapter 2 of this Code.
3 2. See Title IV, Chapter 3 of this Code.
11-10-10: LAUNDRY DRYING FACILITIES:
Mechanical laundry drying equipment or laundry drying yards must be provided.
Laundry drying machines must be located in the service buildings. Where laundry
drying yards are used, they must be convenient to service buildings and have a
area of approximately fifty (50) square feet per mobile home space.
11-10-11: REFUSE COLLECTION:
Refuse must be stored in fly-tight and rodent-proof containers. Each coach
space shall be provided from four (4) to six (6) gallons of refuse storage
capacity per day. Refuse container stations, where used, should be located a
maximum of two hundred feet (200') from any mobile home space and preferably
not more than one hundred fifty feet (150').
11-10-12: RECREATION AREAS:
At least one hundred (100) square feet per mobile home space must be made
available in one or more areas for recreation uses. These areas should be
located so as to be free of traffic hazards.
11-10-13: SITE ENGINEERING:
   (A)   Grading and drainage must be performed so that water will drain away
from mobile home spaces, buildings, service and recreation areas, and off the
site in a manner which will provide reasonable freedom from erosion. Walks,
driveways and retaining walls must be so constructed as not to interfere with
drainage.
   (B)   Roads must be constructed to conform to City road standards. Roads
must be crowned at center to shed water to drainage facilities.
11-10-14: MOBILE HOMES: RESTRICTED PARKING:
   (A)   Any mobile home is hereby restricted to parking only in an approved
mobile home court or park except as when in a stored capacity.
   (B)   A mobile home is hereby described as a vehicle constructed in such a
manner as to permit occupancy as a dwelling or as a sleeping space for one or
more persons.
   (C)   Anyone violating this Section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and is subject to the lawful penalties of fine and/or imprisonment or both.
(Ord., 5-7-84)
11-10-15: INTERNAL ROADS NOT MEETING CITY STANDARDS:
   (A)   By a conditional use permit, the City Council may allow a developer of
a mobile home park or mobile home court to have internal roads which do not
meet City standards. These roads, however, shall be at least twenty four feet
(24') curb to curb and where possible, the developer shall make a good faith
effort to put in a thirty foot (30') street curb to curb.
   (B)   Whenever roads in a mobile home court or mobile home park do not meet
City road specifications, the City shall never maintain those roads in any
manner, plow or accept those roads. The City shall never accept the roads into
the City system until the roads are brought up to the City standards by the
property owner.
   (C)   In the event that from time to time the City chooses to maintain the
road or allow clearance of the road by a City crew, that act shall not set a
precedent and shall not be considered an acceptance of the road by the City.
   (D)   The fact that the City may maintain or clear roads or exercise
jurisdiction over roads which are not up to City standards or which are not in
as good a condition as the mobile home court or mobile home park roads shall
not be a precedent for the City being required to accept or maintain or clear
roads which are hereafter built and which do not meet City specifications.
   (E)   In all roads which are created in a mobile home park or mobile home
subdivision, there must be sufficient clearance for emergency vehicles to
perform emergency tasks, but this requirement shall not mean that the City in
any way accepts substandard roads.
   (F)   In the future, any landowner who purchases property in a mobile home
park or mobile home subdivision shall be put on notice by the seller that the
City is not responsible for the roads and that it will be the responsibility of
the purchaser to bear the costs of bringing those roads up to the City
standards in the event that the purchaser desires to have the City accept and
maintain those roads.
   (G)   Should the City choose to allow a developer or landowner to construct
roads which are not up to City standards, that shall in no manner be deemed as
a waiver by the City of its right to control City sewer and City water systems.
(Ord. 165, 1-7-85)
***** CHAPTER 11
PRIME AGRICULTURE "R" ZONE *****
SECTION:
11-11-1: Use Regulations
11-11-2: Conditional Uses
11-11-1: USE REGULATIONS:
The following uses and no other are permitted in Prime Agriculture "R" Zone.
A single family dwelling used as a farm or ranch house, farm labor house,
garden buildings and accessory structures. Cultivation, harvesting, storage and
sale of crops, vegetables, fruits, plants, flowers and nursery stock produced
on the premises. Plant and material nursery.
11-11-2: CONDITIONAL USES:
Radio and television transmitting stations
Airports, cemeteries, fairgrounds, home occupations, commercial packing plants
for farm crops, preschool, nurseries
Gravel pits, extractive manufacturing and quarries
Riding stables, commercial feed lots, kennels, veterinary or animal hospitals,
livestock and poultry raising and feeding, commercial slaughterhouses and meat
packing facilities (Ord., 5-7-84)
CHAPTER 12
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
11-12-1: Permit Required
11-12-2: Plans Required
11-12-3: Review Required
11-12-4: Design And Construction Standards
11-12-5: Parking Space Requirements
11-12-6: Minimum Requirements
11-12-7: Joint Use Of Facilities
11-12-8: Permit For Joint Use
11-12-9: Conditional Use Permit
11-12-10: Off-Street Loading Facilities
11-12-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation may construct, reconstruct, alter, or
surface any parking area without first obtaining a permit from the City. In the
event of new construction, this permitting may be done as a part of an
underlying building permit.
   (B)   There shall be a charge for any permit obtained pursuant to subsection
(A) of this section, which charge shall be established from time to time by
resolution of the City Council. (Ord. 388, 2-19-2019)
11-12-2: PLANS REQUIRED:
Two (2) copies of plans for parking area improvements are required to be
submitted to the City Clerk. Such plans shall include:
   (A)   A plot plan on which space arrangement, vehicle and pedestrian
circulation, ingress and egress, curbing, and landscaped areas are shown.
   (B)   Details of fence and wall construction and lighting installation in
accordance with applicable code requirements.
   (C)   Plans shall be drawn to scale and show materials of construction,
details of drainage structures, methods of disposal of surface water drainage,
provisions for protection of natural drainage to and from adjoining properties,
including any necessary easements, landscaping, lighting, and any other
information deemed necessary by the City. (Ord. 378, 11-5-2018)
11-12-3: REVIEW REQUIRED:
The plans shall be submitted to the City Engineer for review. In the event the
City Engineer finds that the plans are not in compliance with City codes, the
plans shall be revised to conform to City codes. All costs shall be borne by
the applicant. (Ord. 378, 11-5-2018)
11-12-4: DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
All off street parking and loading areas in Residential, Commercial and
Industrial Zones shall conform to the following design standards:
   (A)   Surfacing: All parking, loading, and vehicular access areas shall be
paved with concrete or asphalt, to provide a permanent surface capable of being
marked and able to withstand the type of vehicular traffic to which such an
area is likely to be subjected. Alternative surfacing proposals shall require
review and approval by the City. The surface finish requirements of this
subsection shall not apply to existing residential parcels or properties which
were developed prior to October 31, 2018, where said existing properties have
driveways or off-street parking areas which are not finished with asphalt or
concrete. For such existing properties, surface material of said existing
driveway or parking area must be contained upon said property without spilling
or diffusing upon any street, sidewalk, right-of-way or other surface area of
an adjacent property. In the event that there is a modification or addition to
any said existing driveway or parking area, said driveway or parking area must
be paved with concrete or asphalt as described within this subsection.
   (B)   Drainage: Parking areas serving nonresidential uses of property shall
be sloped as to properly drain off all surface water. All drainage structure
designs and methods of disposal of surface water drainage shall conform to City
standards and be approved by the City Engineer.
   (C)   Pavement Markings And Signage: All parking space boundaries and
directional traffic arrows shall be marked and properly maintained on the
parking lot surface.
   (D)   Handicap Parking: ADA requirements must be met.
   (E)   Adjacent To Residential Use: When such parking areas or lots abut upon
adjacent residential properties, there shall be provided a wall or solid screen
planting of appropriate shrubs to a height of not less than four feet (4')
along the entire boundary, common to both the residential and parking areas.
   (F)   Lighting: Lights used to illuminate such parking lots shall be so
arranged as to reflect lighting away from the adjoining premises in a
Residential District. All such parking spaces shall be located on the same
parcel as the primary structure or use reserved for the sole use of the
occupants of the building or lots and their customers. Churches, theaters,
stadiums, auditoriums and other places of assembly may make arrangements for
joint use of parking spaces as hereinafter specified. (Ord. 378, 11-5-2018)
11-12-5: PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, one hundred eighty (180) square feet
of lot or floor area, which has a means of ingress or egress from an alley or
street shall be deemed parking space for one vehicle. Such space shall not
occupy any part of any required front yard, but where open may be included as a
part of a required open space for side or rear yard. On corner or through lots,
parking space may not be included as part of required yards lying adjacent to
either street. (Ord. 378, 11-5-2018)
11-12-6: MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS:
In any zone, every building erected, or structurally altered, enlarged or
increased in capacity, and every land use shall be provided with minimum off-
street parking facilities as follows:
   (A)   One- and two-family dwellings and multiple-family dwellings: One
parking space for each dwelling unit.
   (B)   Hotels, rooming houses, clubs and fraternal homes: One parking space
for each four (4) guest sleeping rooms.
   (C)   Hospitals: One parking space for each four (4) hospital beds.
   (D)   Tourist homes: One parking space for each transient sleeping room
offered for tourists accommodation in addition to parking spaces required for
permanent residents of the building.
   (E)   Tourist court and motels: One parking space for each unit.
   (F)   Churches, auditoriums, gymnasiums, stadiums, theaters and other places
of public or private assembly with fixed seats: One parking space for each five
(5) seats or bench seating spaces, based upon maximum seating capacity.
For the purpose of this type of use, parking spaces already provided to meet
off-street parking requirements for stores, office buildings and industrial
establishments, or off- street parking facilities provided by the Municipality,
lying within three hundred feet (300') of the place of public assembly as
measured along the lines of public access, and not normally in use or made
available for other parking, may be used to meet up to seventy five percent
(75%) of the total requirements of parking space for places of public assembly.
   (G)   Dance halls, bowling alleys and private clubs: One parking space for
each two hundred (200) square feet of floor area, to be provided on the
premises or within three hundred feet (300') of the entrance.
   (H)   Funeral homes: Fifteen (15) parking spaces on the premises, plus five
(5) spaces for each area which can be used as a parlor.
   (I)   Stores or other retail establishments where such uses are permitted,
except in the Commercial D Zone: One parking space for each three hundred (300)
square feet of store space, to be provided on the premises or within two
hundred feet (200') of the entrances and off of the street, except that
restaurants of establishments whose primary use is to serve meals and
refreshments to patrons shall provide one parking space for each one hundred
(100) square feet of floor space in the building.
   (J)   Wholesale and distributing establishments including telephone
exchange: One parking space for each three (3) employees.
   (K)   Manufacturing establishments: One parking space for each five (5)
employees, based on the greatest number of employees at one time, to be
provided on the premises or at other off-street locations within one thousand
feet (1,000') of the main entrance.
Parking space required under this chapter may be reduced by the Zoning
Commission at a time when the capacity or use of a building is changed in such
a manner that a new use or capacity would require less space. Such reduction
may not be below the standards set in this chapter.
Loading and unloading areas shall not be considered as parking areas. (Ord.
378, 11-5-2018)
11-12-7: JOINT USE OF FACILITIES:
The joint use of parking facilities may be permitted in cases where major
parking demands occur on different days of the week or during different hours,
provided that parking spaces will be available for each use in accordance with
standards specified in this chapter and that the owners agree in writing that
any subsequent sale or division of the property or change in use thereof will
not interfere with the joint use of the parking facilities. (Ord. 378, 11-5-
2018)
11-12-8: PERMIT FOR JOINT USE:
A plan of parking facilities shall accompany each application for a building
permit or certificate of compliance. The completion of the improvements for
parking according to such plan shall be a requisite for the validity of the
permit or certificate. (Ord. 378, 11-5-2018)
11-12-9: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
The Governing Body may authorize a conditional use permit to allow a parking
lot in a Residence Zone for the purpose of meeting the requirements of this
chapter by following the requirements set out in chapter 16 of this title.
   (A)   A conditional use permit shall not be granted unless the application
shows and warrants that, in the proposed development of the parking area, the
front and side yard requirements will be maintained. (Ord. 378, 11-5-2018)
11-12-10: OFF-STREET LOADING FACILITIES:
On the same lot with every building or part thereof, to be used for other than
dwelling purposes, or as an accessory use of dwelling purposes there shall be
provided on the lot adequate space for motor vehicles in order to avoid undue
interference with the public use of streets or alleys. Such space, unless
otherwise adequately provided for, shall include a ten foot by twenty five foot
(10' x 25') loading space, with fifteen feet (15') height clearance and one
such space shall be provided for each twenty thousand (20,000) square feet or
fraction thereof of floor or lot area used for other than residence purposes.
(Ord. 378, 11-5-2018)
***** CHAPTER 13
SIGNS *****
SECTION:
11-13-1: House Number
11-13-2: Announcement Signs
11-13-3: Advertising Signs
11-13-1: HOUSE NUMBER:
Signs not exceeding one square foot in area and illuminated only by the
reflector method, placed back of the building line, and so erected that the
light source is not visible from outside of the premises are hereby permitted
subject to the following restrictions:
   (A)   In Residence A Zone a sign bearing only the house number and the name
of the occupant.
   (B)   In Residence B and C Zones a sign bearing the house number and the
name of the occupant or building or indicating the existence of an enterprise
is hereby permitted on the premises. (Ord., 5-7-1984)
11-13-2: ANNOUNCEMENT SIGNS:
Signs not exceeding twelve (12) square feet in area and illuminated only by the
reflector method, placed back of the building line, and so erected that the
light source is not visible from outside the premises will be permitted as
follows:
   (A)   In Residence B and C Zones.
   (B)   A sign advertising only the sale, rental or lease of the building or
premises on which it is maintained.
   (C)   An announcement sign or bulletin board for the use of a public,
charitable or religious institution occupying the premises.
   (D)   An advertising sign in connection with a lawfully maintained
nonconforming use. (Ord., 5-7-1984)
11-13-3: ADVERTISING SIGNS:
Advertising signs are hereby permitted as follows:
   (A)   In Commercial "D" Zone.
   (B)   Limited to advertising the goods sold or services rendered on the
premises. (Ord., 5-7-84)
***** CHAPTER 14
NONCONFORMING USES *****
SECTION:
11-14-1: Intent
11-14-2: Incompatibility of Nonconforming Uses
11-14-3: Avoidance of Undue Hardship
11-14-4: Existing Uses
11-14-5: Repairs, Maintenance and Damage
11-14-6: Uses Under Conditional Use Provision Not Nonconforming
11-14-1: INTENT:
It is the intent of this Chapter to permit nonconforming uses to continue until
they are removed, but not to encourage their survival. It is further the intent
of this Chapter that nonconforming uses shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or
extended nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited
elsewhere in the same zone.
11-14-2: INCOMPATIBILITY OF NONCONFORMING USES:
Nonconforming uses are declared by this Chapter to be incompatible with
permitted uses in the zone in which such use is located. A nonconforming use
shall not be extended or enlarged after passage of this Chapter by attachment
on a building or premises of additional signs intended to be seen from off the
premises, or by the addition of other uses of nature which would be generally
prohibited in the zone in which such use is located.
11-14-3: AVOIDANCE OF UNDUE HARDSHIP:
To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this Chapter shall be deemed to require a
change in the plans, construction or designated use of any building on which
actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of adoption
or amendment of this Ordinance and upon which actual building construction has
been carried on diligently; provided that it is completed and so used within
one year after the effective date of this Chapter.
11-14-4: EXISTING USES:
The lawful use of land or buildings existing at the time of the adoption of
this title may continue although such use does not conform to the regulations
specified by this title for the zone in which such land or buildings are
located, subject to the following conditions and specifications.
   (A)   A nonconforming use of land, wrecking yard or junk yard or any
nonconforming building with an assessed valuation of less than two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) shall be made to conform to this title within a period
of two (2) years.
   (B)   No nonconforming use of a building may be moved to any other part or
parcel of land upon which same was conducted at the time of the adoption of
this title.
   (C)   The use of a nonconforming building may be changed only to a use
conforming to the zone in which the property is located.
   (D)   Any nonconforming signs or billboards shall be removed within a period
of one year from the date of the enactment of this title. (Ord., 5-7-1984)
11-14-5: REPAIRS, MAINTENANCE AND DAMAGE:
   (A)   Ordinary repairs and maintenance shall be permitted, however, a
building or structure devoted to a nonconforming use at the time this chapter
becomes effective may not be altered or enlarged so as to extend the
nonconforming use nor may the use be enlarged in any other way except by a
conditional use permit.
   (B)   A nonconforming building which has been damaged by an uncontrollable
act to the extent of sixty percent (60%) of its reproduction value as
determined by the City Council at the time of the damage shall not be restored
except in conformity with the regulations of the zone in which it is located.
When damage is less than sixty percent (60%) of its reproduction value, a
nonconforming building may be repaired or reconstructed and used as before the
time of damage, provided such repairs or reconstruction is completed within one
year of the date of such damage. (Ord., 5-7-1984)
11-14-6: USES UNDER CONDITIONAL USE PROVISIONS NOT NONCONFORMING:
Any use which is permitted as a conditional use in a zone under the terms of
this chapter shall not be deemed a nonconforming use in such zone, but shall,
without further action, be considered a conforming use. (Ord., 5-7-1984)
***** CHAPTER 15
RECLASSIFICATION OF ZONES OR ZONE CHANGES *****
SECTION:
11-15-1: Zone Changes
11-15-2: Application Required
11-15-3: Form And Scope
11-15-4: Content
11-15-5: Reserved
11-15-6: Notice And Publication Of Hearing
11-15-7: Standards Applicable To Zone Changes
11-15-8: Action By Commission
11-15-9: Action By City Council
11-15-10: Ordinance Required
11-15-11: Resubmittal
11-15-1: ZONE CHANGES:
Any change, modification or reclassification of zones may be initiated by the
City Council, the commission, or by application of one or more property owners,
purchasers or holders of valid options to purchase property. When the
application for change, modification or reclassification is initiated by a
property owner, purchaser or holders of valid options to purchase property, the
procedure set forth herein shall be followed, except that the commission may,
subject to the provisions for notice and publication of hearing, enlarge,
expand and amplify a petition for change in reclassification of a zone or a
planned use classification. (Ord., 5-7-1984)
11-15-2: APPLICATION REQUIRED:
Every person seeking a reclassification of any land regulated by this chapter
shall file with the Administrator an application therefor, upon a form
prescribed by the commission, accompanied by a filing fee as set by resolution
of the City Council. All applications for rezone shall conform to the
requirements of section 67-6511, of the Idaho Code, as it may be amended,
modified, altered or changed. (Ord. 375, 6-18-2018)
11-15-3: FORM AND SCOPE:
The commission shall prescribe the form, scope, and content of such
application, and the data required to be furnished in connection therewith.
Each such application shall include a map showing the lots and parcels of land
within three hundred feet (300') of the exterior boundaries thereof, together
with the list of the names and addresses of the last known owners of each lot
or parcel, insofar as they are of record with the County Assessor.
11-15-4: CONTENT:
Every application shall contain or be accompanied by all information, plans,
and maps to scale and other data necessary to assure full presentation of
pertinent facts for the records and to assist in making a determination in
harmony with the objectives of this Title. No application shall be accepted by
the Administrator unless it is complete and in compliance with all such
requirements and contains that information set forth herein, together with a
designation of the proposed zone classification.
11-15-5: RESERVED: 
Reserved by 435, 3-23-2026.
11-15-6: NOTICE AND PUBLICATION OF HEARING:
Notice of time, place and purpose of each public hearing held by the Commission
shall be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the City
at least fifteen (15) days prior to such hearing. When the public hearing is
before the Commission on a proposed change, modification or reclassification
and the enlargement, expansion and amplification thereof, notice shall be given
by the applicant to the Administrator who shall deliver said notice by regular
U.S. mail to each property owner whose name and address appears on the list
accompanying such application. When notice is required to two hundred (200) or
more property owners or residents, alternate forms of procedures which would
provide adequate notice may be provided in lieu of mailed notice. In the event
the Commission originates, enlarges, extends and amplifies the application for
the change, modification or reclassification of property, zone, or land use
classification, the Administrator shall be required to ascertain the names and
addresses of the last known owners as the same appears on the records of the
County Assessor's office of each parcel of land within three hundred feet
(300') to the exterior boundaries of the land area sought to be enlarged,
extended or amplified. The notice shall give the date, time and place of
hearing, the name of the applicant, and relief sought, and identification of
the property, and such other facts as may be prescribed by the Commission. The
Administrator may, in lieu of notice by mail, order three (3) additional
publications, the last publication of such notice must be at least fifteen (15)
days before the date set for such hearings. In any public hearing, the
presiding officer may order the hearing to be continued by publicly announcing
the time and place of continuance, and no further notice thereof shall be
required.
11-15-7: STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ZONE CHANGES:
The Commission and City Council shall review the particular facts and
circumstances of each proposed zone change and take the following factors into
consideration:
   (A)   The compatibility of the proposed zone with surrounding uses and
zones.
   (B)   Availability of power, water, sewer, fire protection, police
protection and school facilities.
   (C)   Access to highways; burdens imposed upon taxing entities for services
which will have to be provided.
   (D)   Location in relation to flood plain and airport approaches.
   (E)   Easements, encumbrances, adverse interests.
   (F)   The opinions of surrounding land owners entitled to notice.
   (G)   Availability of drainage structures and refuse disposal.
   (H)   Opinions of other local or State agencies required to provide services
or issue permits.
   (I)   Zone change will not set a precedence for future uses incompatible
with existing uses.
   (J)   Compatibility or conflict with the Comprehensive Plan.
   (K)   Any other factors relevant to the suitability of rezoning the
property.
11-15-8: ACTION BY COMMISSION:
At every hearing before the Commission, the Commission shall hear all persons
interested in the subject matter. Not later than sixty (60) working days after
the conclusion of the hearing, the Commission shall file a report stating the
action taken by the Commission at such hearing or its recommendation to the
City Council.
11-15-9: ACTION BY CITY COUNCIL:
The City Council shall either approve, disapprove or modify the recommendations
of the Commission. The City Council shall hold a public hearing, in accordance
with Section
11-15-6.
11-15-10: ORDINANCE REQUIRED:
In the event the City Council shall have approved or modified the
recommendation of the Commission, the City Council shall cause to be prepared
the appropriate ordinance of amendment. However, no ordinance amending the New
Plymouth City Zoning Ordinance shall become effective until a public hearing
has been held for which fifteen (15) days' notice of the time and place of such
hearing shall be published in the newspaper of the City.
11-15-11: RESUBMITTAL:
No application for the change or reclassification of any property, zone or land
use classification, which has been denied by the City Council shall be
resubmitted in either the same or substantially the same form, with reference
to substantially the same premises or the same purpose, with one year from the
date of final action thereon. Any party adversely affected by any action of the
Commission or Board may appeal pursuant to the appellant procedures herein
contained. (Ord., 5-7-1984)
***** CHAPTER 16
CONDITIONAL USES *****
SECTION:
11-16-1: General
11-16-2: Contents of Application for Conditional Use Permit
11-16-3: General Standards Applicable to All Conditional Uses
11-16-4: Public Sites and Open Spaces
11-16-5: Supplementary Conditions and Safeguards
11-16-6: Procedure for Hearing, Notice
11-16-7: Action by Commission
11-16-1: GENERAL:
   (A)   It is recognized that an increasing number of new kinds of uses are
appearing daily, and that many of these and some other more conventional uses
possess characteristics of such unique and special nature relative to location,
design, size, method of operation, circulation and public facilities that each
specific use must be considered individually.
   (B)   The Commission shall hold a public hearing on each conditional use
permit application. The Commission may approve, conditionally approve or deny a
conditional use permit under the conditions as herein specified and considering
such additional safeguards as will uphold the intent of this Title and when it
is not in conflict with the plan.
11-16-2: CONTENTS OF APPLICATION FOR CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
An application for conditional use permit shall be filed with the Administrator
by at least one owner or lessee of property for which such conditional use is
proposed. At a minimum, the application shall contain the following
information:
   (A)   Name, address and phone number of applicant.
   (B)   Legal description of property.
   (C)   Description of existing use.
   (D)   Zone classification.
   (E)   Description of proposed conditional use.
   (F)   A plan of the proposed site for the conditional use showing the
location of all buildings, parking and loading area, traffic access and traffic
circulation, open spaces, landscaping, refuse and service areas, utilities,
signs, yards and other such information as the commission may require to
determine if the proposed conditional use meets the intent and requirements of
this title.
   (G)   A narrative statement evaluating the effects of adjoining property of
such elements as noise, glare, odor, fumes and vibration; a discussion of the
general compatibility with adjacent and other properties in the zone; and the
relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan.
   (H)   Names and addresses of adjoining property owners within three hundred
feet (300'), and people living on the land being considered. (Ord., 5-7-1984)
   (I)   A filing fee as set by resolution of the City Council shall accompany
the application. (Ord. 375, 6-18-2018)
11-16-3: GENERAL STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO ALL CONDITIONAL USES:
   (A)   The commission shall review the particular facts and circumstances of
each proposed conditional use in terms of the following standards and shall
find adequate evidence showing that such use at the proposed location will:
      1.   In fact, constitute a conditional use.
      2.   Be harmonious with and in accordance with the general objectives or
with any specific objective of the Comprehensive Plan and this title.
      3.   Be designed, constructed, operated and maintained to be harmonious
and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended character of the
general vicinity and that such use will not change the essential character of
the same area.
      4.   Not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future neighboring
uses.
      5.   Be served adequately by essential public facilities and services
such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage structures,
refuse disposal, water and sewer and schools; or that the persons or agencies
responsible for the establishment of the proposed use shall be able to provide
adequately any such services.
      6.   Not create excessive additional requirements at public cost for
public facilities and services and will not be detrimental to the economic
welfare of the community.
      7.   Not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment and
conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any persons, property or
the general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic, noise, smoke,
fumes, glare or odors;
      8.   Have vehicular approaches to the property which shall be so designed
as not to create an interference with traffic on surrounding public
thoroughfares;
      9.   Not result in the destruction, loss or damage of a natural, scenic
or historic feature of major importance.
   (B)   A conditional use is deemed personal in nature and cannot be
transferred with title to the property. (Ord., 5-7-1984)
11-16-4: PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES:
Public sites and open spaces shall conform to the following:
   (A)   Public Uses: Where it is determined that a proposed park, playground,
school or other public use is located in whole or in part within a proposed
development, the commission shall notify the appropriate public agency
concerning the land proposed to be acquired. Within thirty (30) days of the
date of notice, the public agency may request the Governing Body to suspend
consideration on the permit for sixty (60) days from the date of the request;
however, if an agreement is not reached within sixty (60) days, the commission
shall resume consideration of the conditional use application;
   (B)   Natural Features: Existing natural features which add value to
residential development and enhance the attractiveness of the community (such
as trees, watercourses, historic spots and similar irreplaceable assets) shall
be preserved in the design of the development; and
   (C)   Special Developments: In the case of planned unit developments and
large-scale developments, the commission may require sufficient park or open
space facilities of acceptable size, location and site characteristics that may
be suitable for the proposed development. (Ord., 5-7-1984)
11-16-5: SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS:
In granting any conditional use, the commission may prescribe appropriate
conditions, bonds, and safeguards in conformity with this title. Violations of
such conditions, bonds or safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which
the conditional use is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this title.
(Ord., 5-7-1984)
11-16-6: PROCEDURE FOR HEARING, NOTICE:
Prior to granting a conditional use permit, at least one public hearing in
which interested persons shall have an opportunity to be heard shall be held.
At least fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing, notice of the time and place
and a summary of the proposal shall be published in the official newspaper or
paper of general circulation within the jurisdiction. Notice may also be made
available to other newspapers, radio and television stations serving the
jurisdiction for use as a public service announcement. Written notice sent by
regular United States mail shall be provided to adjoining property owners as
indicated on the records of the County Assessor's Office, owners and residents
within the land being considered, three hundred feet (300') beyond the external
boundaries of the land being considered, and any additional area that may be
substantially impacted by the proposed conditional use as determined by the
commission. When notice is required to two hundred (200) or more property
owners or residents, in lieu of the mailing notification, three (3) notices in
the official newspaper or paper of general circulation is sufficient; provided,
the third notice appears fifteen (15) days prior to the public hearing. (Ord.,
5-7-1984)
11-16-7: ACTION BY COMMISSION:
   (A)   Within sixty (60) days after the public hearing, or at the next
regular meeting of the commission, whichever occurs later, the commission will
either approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the application as
presented. If the application is approved or approved with modifications, the
commission shall direct the Administrator to issue a conditional use permit
listing the specific conditions specified by the commission for approval.
   (B)   Upon granting a conditional use permit, conditions may be attached to
a conditional use permit including but not limited to these:
      1.   Minimizing adverse impact on other development.
      2.   Controlling the sequence and timing of development.
      3.   Controlling the duration of development.
      4.   Assuring that development is maintained properly.
      5.   Designating the exact location and nature of development.
      6.   Requiring the provision for on-site or off-site public facilities or
services.
      7.   Requiring more restrictive standards than those generally required
in an ordinance.
   (C)   Prior to granting a conditional use permit, the commission may require
additional information concerning social, economic, fiscal and environmental
effects of the proposed conditional use. A conditional use permit shall not be
considered as establishing a binding precedent to grant other conditional use
permits. A conditional use permit is not transferable from one parcel of land
to another.
   (D)   Upon granting or denying an application, the commission shall specify:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application.
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial.
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit.
   (E)   Within thirty (30) days after a decision by the commission has been
rendered, the Administrator shall provide the applicant with written notice of
the action on the request.
   (F)   The applicant or any affected person who appears in person or in
writing before the commission may appeal the decision of the commission in
accordance with chapter 18 of this title. (Ord., 5-7-1984)
***** CHAPTER 17
VARIANCE *****
SECTION:
11-17-1: General
11-17-2: Application And Standards
11-17-3: Supplementary Conditions And Safeguards
11-17-4: Public Hearing
11-17-5: Action By The Planning And Zoning Commission
11-17-1: GENERAL:
The Planning and Zoning Commission may authorize in specific cases such
variance from the terms of this title as will not be contrary to the public
interest where, owing to special conditions, a literal enforcement of the
provisions of this title would result in unnecessary hardship. No nonconforming
use of neighboring lands, structures or building in the same zone and not
permitted or nonconforming use of lands, structures or buildings in other zones
shall be considered grounds for issuance of a variance. Variances shall not be
granted on the grounds of convenience or profit, but only where strict
application of the provisions of this title would result in unnecessary
hardship. A variance shall not be considered a right or special privilege, but
may be granted to an applicant only upon showing of undue hardship. (Ord. 253,
7-26-1999)
11-17-2: APPLICATION AND STANDARDS:
   (A)   A variance from the terms of this title shall not be granted by the
Planning and Zoning Commission unless and until a written application for a
variance is submitted to the Administrator and the Planning and Zoning
Commission, which application contains the following information:
      1.   Name, address and phone number of applicant(s).
      2.   Legal description of property.
      3.   Description of nature of variance requested.
      4.   Names and addresses of property owners within three hundred feet
(300') beyond the external boundaries of the land being considered. (Ord. 253,
7-26-1999)
      5.   A filing fee as set by resolution of the City Council shall
accompany the application. (Ord. 375, 6-18-2018)
      6.   A narrative statement demonstrating that the requested variance
conforms to the following standards:
         (a)   That special conditions and circumstances exist which are
peculiar to the land structure or building involved and which are not
applicable to other lands, structures or buildings in the zone.
         (b)   That a literal interpretation of the provisions of this title
would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in
the same zone under the terms of this title.
         (c)   That special conditions and circumstances do not result from the
actions of the applicant.
         (d)   That granting the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this title to other lands,
structures or buildings in the same zone. A variance attaches to the realty and
is transferable with the title to the property.
   (B)   A variance shall not be granted unless the Planning and Zoning
Commission makes specific findings of fact based directly on the particular
evidence presented to it which support conclusions that the above mentioned
standards and conditions have been met by the applicant. (Ord. 253, 7-26-1999)
11-17-3: SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS AND SAFEGUARDS:
Under no circumstances shall the Planning and Zoning Commission grant a
variance to allow a use not permissible under the terms of this title in the
zone involved, or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the terms
of this title in said zone. In granting any variance, the Planning and Zoning
Commission may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards and, when made a
part of the terms under which the variance is granted, any deviation shall be
deemed a violation of this Title. (Ord. 253, 7-26-1999)
11-17-4: PUBLIC HEARING:
Upon receipt of the application for a variance, the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall hold a public hearing, publish notice in a newspaper of
general circulation within the County, or the official City newspaper, and give
written notice to all parties as required in Section
11-15-6 of this Title. (Ord. 253, 7-26-1999)
11-17-5: ACTION BY THE PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
   (A)   Within thirty (30) days after the public hearing or at the next
regular meeting of the Planning and Zoning Commission, whichever occurs last,
the Planning and Zoning Commission shall either approve, conditionally approve
or disapprove the request for a variance.
   (B)   Upon granting or denying an application, the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall specify:
      1.   The ordinance and standards used in evaluating the application.
      2.   The reasons for approval or denial.
      3.   The actions, if any, that the applicant could take to obtain a
permit.
   (C)   Within thirty (30) days after a decision has been rendered, the
Administrator shall provide the applicant with written notice of the action on
the request.
   (D)   The applicant or any affected person who appeared in person or in
writing before the Planning and Zoning Commission may appeal the decision of
the Commission to the City Council, in accordance with Chapter 18 of this
Title. (Ord. 253, 7-26-1999)
***** CHAPTER 18
ADMINISTRATION *****
SECTION:
11-18-1: Purpose
11-18-2: Schedule of Fees, Charges And Expenses
11-18-3: Application Requirements, Review And Fees
11-18-4: Decision Making Authority And Process Table
11-18-5: Public Hearing And Notice Procedures
11-18-6: Public Hearing Rules Of Procedure
11-18-7: Procedures For Applications Considered And Decided In Public Meeting
11-18-8: Administrative Decision By Administrator
11-18-9: Commission Decisions And Recommendations
11-18-10: City Council Decisions
11-18-11: Certificate Of Zoning Compliance
11-18-12: Mediation
11-18-13: Appeal Of Administrator Or Commission Decisions
11-18-14: Reconsiderations
11-18-15: Refiling Limitation On Denied Applications
11-18-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to outline the general application, decision
making authority and process for any permit authorized or required under the
provisions of this title and as provided by Idaho Code § 50-222, Chapter 13 of
Title 50 Idaho Code, and Chapter 65 of Title 67 Idaho Code. (Ord. 435, 3-23-
2026)
11-18-2: SCHEDULE OF FEES, CHARGES AND EXPENSES:
The Council shall establish by resolution a schedule of fees, charges, and
expenses and a collection procedure for zoning permits, amendments, appeals,
variances, conditional use permits, plan approvals, and other matters
pertaining to the administration and enforcement of this title requiring
investigations, inspections, legal advertising, postage and other expenses. The
schedule of fees shall be posted in the office of the Administrator and may be
altered or amended only by resolution of the Council. Until all applicable
fees, charges, and expenses have been paid in full, no action shall be taken on
any application or appeal. (Ord. 435, 3-23-2026)
11-18-3: APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS, REVIEW AND FEES:
   (A)   Application requirements: All persons making an application for
annexation, zoning, subdivision approval or any permit or other matter governed
by this Title or Title XII New Plymouth City Code are required to submit to the
Administrator an application on forms approved by the Commission and provided
by the Administrator.
   (B)   Pre-application meeting: When required by this Title or Title XII New
Plymouth City Code, a pre-application meeting with the Administrator shall be
held no more than three (3) months prior to submitting an application. The pre-
application meeting requirement may be waived by the Administrator on a case-
by-case basis.
   (C)   Fees: The Council shall, by resolution, establish fees for all
applications or petitions authorized by this Title and Title XII, including
fees for review by the City Attorney and/or City Engineer related to
applications or petitions authorized by this Title and Title XII.
   (D)   Application completeness and compliance review: Applications are not
accepted until the Administrator, the Administrator's designee, and/or the City
Engineer find that the application is complete and complies with this Title
and/or Title XII. Application completeness and compliance review fees are
required to be paid prior to the application being reviewed by the
Administrator. The Administrator shall have sixty (60) days to review to
determine and notify in writing the applicant whether or not the application is
complete and in compliance.
   (E)   Incomplete applications: If the Administrator or their designee
determines that an application is incomplete, they shall provide notice to the
applicant of such deficiencies. In the event an applicant fails to provide the
missing information within a period of fourteen (14) calendar days of such
notice, the application shall be deemed to have expired and will not be further
processed by the City unless and until an entirely new application is
submitted.
   (F)   Acceptance of applications: Applications, which are found by the
Administrator to be complete and in compliance, are then officially accepted
for processing. The Administrator will issue and deliver to the applicant a
letter of application acceptance. The date of acceptance determination shall be
the date the Administrator issues an acceptance letter. (Ord. 435, 3-23-2026)
11-18-4: DECISION MAKING AUTHORITY AND PROCESS TABLE: 
The following table provides guidance concerning the application and decision-
making process provided for in this Title and in Title XII.
            Decision-Making Body
Application Recommending Decision-   Administrative Pre-        Public  Public
Type        Body         Making Body Approval       Application Meeting Hearing
                                                    Meeting
                                       Decision-Making Body
Application Type                       Recommending Decision- Administrative Pre-        Public  Public
                                       Body         Making    Approval       Application Meeting Hearing
                                                    Body                     Meeting
Annexation and/or rezone               PZ           CC                       x                   x
Conditional Use Permit                 None         PZ                       x                   x
Comp. Plan Amendment                   PZ           CC                       x                   x
Development Agreement/ Modification    A            CC                       x                   x
Final Plat/ Modification               A            CC                                   x
Lot Line Adjustment                    None         A         x
Combination Plat (4 lots or less)      PZ           CC                                           x
Preliminary Plat                       PZ           CC                       x                   x
Time Extension, Administrator          None         A         x
Time Extension, Council                A            CC                                   x
Text/Ordinan ce Amendment              PZ           CC                       x                   x
Vacation - Exempt per I.C. § 50-1306A None         A         x
(5)
Vacation - Rights-of-Wa y              A            CC                                   x
Vacation - All Others                  PZ           CC                       x                   x
Variance                               A            PZ                       x                   x
A = Administrator                                   PZ = Planning & Zoning Commission    CC = City
                                                                                         Council
 
(Ord. 435, 3-23-2026)
11-18-5: PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICE PROCEDURES:
   (A)   Scope: Decisions on permits and requests for action requiring a public
hearing are based on standards that require substantial discretion and are
matters having broad public interest.
   (B)   Posting public hearing notice:
      1.   Required: All applications requiring a public hearing shall be
posted on the subject property, except posting is not required for a zoning or
subdivision code text amendment, comprehensive plan text amendment, vacation,
and/or comprehensive plan map amendment initiated by the City.
      2.   Time frame: Not less than ten (10) days prior to the hearing, the
applicant shall post a copy of the public hearing notice of the application on
the property under consideration.
      3.   Except as noted herein, posting of the property must be in
substantial compliance with the following requirements:
         (a)   Sign maintenance and repair: All signs shall be continually
maintained in a state of good appearance, security, safety, and repair
throughout their life. Nothing in New Plymouth City Code shall relieve the user
of any sign or owner of subject property on which a sign is located from
maintaining the sign in a safe condition and in a state of good repair.
         (b)   Clear vision and sight triangles: Signs shall not be permitted
in the sight triangle as defined, interpreted and applied by the City of New
Plymouth, except at a height of less than three feet (3') and/or greater than
ten feet (10') measured from and along the finished grade of the sign area.
Sign structures above three feet (3') in height having a projected width of
greater than one foot (1') shall not be permitted in sight triangles. Under
unusual circumstances, the Administrator may modify the dimensions and
restrictions of a sight triangle at a specific location, based on technical
expertise as may be offered by the City Engineer.
         (c)   Signs adjacent to residentially zoned areas: Any sign or
structure located on a lot which is adjacent to a residentially zoned lot shall
be set back as to meet the side, rear and front yard setback requirements of
said adjoining residential district if such residential setback requirements
exceed those of the commercial district.
         (d)   Separation requirements from utility power lines: Signs shall be
located in such a way that they maintain horizontal and vertical clearance of
all overhead electrical conductors in accordance with the National Electrical
Safety Code specifications, as reviewed and determined by Idaho Power Company.
Applicants are required to contact the local electric company before erecting a
sign nearer than twenty-five feet (25') of electric power lines. No sign shall
be placed within a power line easement without approval of the holder of such
easement.
         (e)   Materials: The sign(s) shall consist of four-foot by four-foot
(4' x 4') plywood or other hard surface mounted on two (2), four-inch by four-
inch (4" x 4") posts, or attached to another staff approved support in such a
manner that it is perpendicular to the roadway along which the sign is posted
and bottom of the sign is at least three feet (3') above the ground.
         (f)   Wording: An example of the required sign specification is set
forth below:
 
Size = 6 inches CITY OF NEW PLYMOUTH PUBLIC HEARING NOTICE, MONTH, DAY, YEAR
Size = 2 inches Reviewing Body (Commission or Council), New Plymouth City Hall,
                215 N. Plymouth Ave., 6:00 p.m.
                PURPOSE: (Proposed land use actions), (Project Name), Proposed
                Zoning (Requested zone), (Project acreage) acres, (Proposed
Size = 2 inches Number of Building Lots) buildable lots, (proposed number of
                common lots) common lots
                APPLICATION BY: Average citizen, USA, Inc.
Size = 2 inches Contact the City at 208-278-5338
 
      4.   Other specifications: In lieu of the above conditions, public
hearing applications that contain less than one (1) acre of land may use a
dual-sided sign consisting of an eleven-inch by seventeen-inch (11"x17") piece
of laminated paper mounted to a rigid surface of at least equal size, stating
the name of the applicant, a statement concerning the proposed development, and
the date, time, and location of the public hearing. The sign shall be placed
perpendicular to any roadway and shall be visible from both directions of
traffic. An example of the required sign specification is set forth below:
 
Size = 1 inch CITY OF NEW PLYMOUTH PUBLIC HEARING NOTICE, MONTH, DAY, YEAR
Size = ¾ inchReviewing Body (Commission or Council), New Plymouth City Hall,
              215 N. Plymouth Ave., 6:00 p.m.
              PURPOSE: (Proposed land use actions), (Project Name), Proposed
              Zoning (Requested Zone), (Project acreage) acres, (Proposed
Varies        number of building lots) buildable lots, (Proposed number of
              common lots) common lots
              APPLICATION BY: Average Citizen, USA, Inc.
Size = ¾ inchContact the City at 208-278-5338
 
      5.   Sign placement: The signs shall be posted on the land being
considered, perpendicular to each roadway that is adjacent to it. The sign(s)
shall be located on the property, outside of the public right-of-way. If the
sign cannot be placed on the property and still be clearly visible, the sign
may be placed within the right-of-way if the applicant has obtained consent of
the right-of-way owner.
      6.   Proof of posting: The applicant shall submit a notarized statement
and a dated photograph of the posting to the Administrator or designee no later
than seven (7) days prior to the public hearing attesting to where and when the
sign(s) was posted. Unless certification is received by such date, the hearing
will be tabled or cancelled.
      7.   Sign removal: The posted sign shall be removed no later than three
(3) business days after the public hearing decision is rendered.
   (C)   Mailing and publishing of the public hearing notice:
      1.   Legal notice: At least fifteen (15) days prior to the public
hearing, the City shall publish a notice of the time and place and a summary of
the application in the official newspaper of the City.
      2.   Radius notice:
         (a)   Time of notice: At least fifteen (15) days prior to the public
hearing, the City shall send a notice by first class mail of the time and
place, and a summary of the application to property owners or purchasers of
record (as listed in the current records of the Payette County Assessor) owning
property within three hundred feet (300') of the external boundaries of the
land being considered.
         (b)   Notice extended: The required noticing shall be extended to
property owners within one thousand feet (1,000') of the external boundaries
for heavy industrial uses and wireless communication facilities.
         (c)   Notice to other jurisdictions: The City shall send notice of the
application to other jurisdictions with interest and/or authority over the
application, including but not limited to, the following:
            (1)   Other jurisdictions with joint jurisdiction or having an
interest in the application;
            (2)   Appropriate utility companies, irrigation companies or
districts, and drainage districts;
            (3)   Health, fire, and transportation authorities; and
            (4)   School districts.
   (D)   Alternate forms of notice for public hearings: When posted notice is
required, or mailed notice is legally required to two hundred (200) or more
property owners or purchasers of record, alternate forms of notice may be
provided as follows:
      1.   One (1) additional publication notice of the time, place of the
hearing, and summary of the proposal in a newspaper of general circulation
within the county, not less than ten (10) days prior to the hearing.
      2.   A public service announcement shall be made available to other
newspapers, radio and television stations serving the City, not less than seven
(7) days prior to the hearing.
      3.   If such alternate forms of notice are utilized, it shall be the
applicant's duty to arrange and pay for such notice, and the applicant shall be
obligated to provide proof of such alternate notice as set forth in section
11-18-5(B)6. of this Title. (Ord. 435, 3-23-2026)
11-18-6: PUBLIC HEARING RULES OF PROCEDURE:
   (A)   Applicability: The following rules are hereby established and shall be
observed in the conduct of any public hearing before the Council or Commission.
   (B)   Rules of Hearing Procedure:
      1.   No person shall be permitted to testify or speak before a city
agency at a public hearing unless such person has written his or her name and
address thereafter on a sign-up sheet provided by the city or unless such
person has been recognized and authorized by the presiding chairman to speak.
This rule shall not apply to staff or technical witnesses directed by the
presiding chairman to testify or provide evidence at the public hearing.
      2.   No person shall be permitted to speak before a city agency at a
public hearing until such person has been recognized by the presiding chairman
and has clearly stated for the record their name, address, and interest in the
matter.
      3.   All public hearing proceedings shall be recorded electronically and
all persons speaking at such public hearings shall speak before a microphone in
such a manner as will assure that the recorded testimony or remarks will be
included in the record of the proceedings and the clerk of the proceedings
shall notify speakers when they are not in compliance.
      4.   The general public hearing time limits and rules, unless a special
hearing time limit is otherwise established by majority vote of the members of
the city agency, for speakers (not including time for questions and response)
is as follows:
         (a)   Staff presentation: Fifteen (15) minutes;
         (b)   Applicant representative: Ten (10) minutes;
         (c)   Public testimony: Three (3) minutes;
         (d)   Applicant rebuttal testimony: Five (5) minutes.
         (e)   Persons called to testify by the city agency members to respond
to their questions are not subject to these time limits.
         (f)   No testimony will be received after the approval of a motion to
close evidence presentation and proceed to deliberation.
         (g)   Any special time limit established by the city agency shall
consider, but not be limited to, the number of speakers who sign up for each
hearing, providing a fair opportunity for interested parties and persons to
present relevant evidence or information, the lateness of the hour at the
commencement of the hearing, and the number of hearings left on the meeting
agenda, and shall apply only to the speaker's comments.
      5.   Any person or applicant who wishes to speak and who also wishes to
present any documents and other forms of physical evidence not already in the
record of proceedings must provide the same to the clerk of the proceedings
prior to the commencement of the receipt of testimony so the same may be marked
as an exhibit by the clerk which shall be identified by the speaker during
their testimony; and any electronic displays or presentations must be provided
prior to the meeting and prior to the distribution of the agenda and supporting
documents to the governing body. No late electronic submissions will be allowed
and no non-city produced external disc or external drive will be permitted to
be used on city equipment. Any paper copies must be in a size that is clearly
viewable by the governing body and attendees of the meeting from a minimum
distance of ten feet (10') or individual copies may be provided and in a
quantity to provide a copy for all members of the governing body, staff, and
any public in attendance.
      6.   Speakers should not be interrupted by members of the city agency so
long as the speaker's comments are related to the subject matter of the hearing
until an imposed time limit has been reached.
      7.   At the conclusion of a speaker's comments, each member of the city
agency, when recognized by the presiding chairman, shall be allowed to question
the speaker, and the speaker shall be limited to answers to the questions
asked. The question and answer period shall not be included in the speaker's
time limit, if one has been established.
      8.   Any person not conforming to any of the above rules may be
prohibited from speaking during the public hearing. Any person refusing to
comply with such prohibition may be removed from the room by order of the
presiding chairman.
   (C)   Decisions following public hearings:
      1.   All decisions made or actions taken by the Council or Commission
shall be initiated by motion of one (1) of its members.
      2.   Every motion seconded by another member shall proceed to a vote
unless such motion be withdrawn by the maker of the motion prior to the vote.
Every motion failing to receive a second shall die without a vote.
      3.   There shall be five (5) recognized public hearing motions which can
be made in meetings subject to these rules and listed in priority order in the
event more than one (1) motion is pending. Such motions are:
         (a)   Motion to open the public hearing;
         (b)   Motion to suspend or amend these rules;
         (c)   Motion for recess and continuance of the public hearing for
matters as specified to a time and date certain;
         (d)   Motion to close evidence presentation and proceed to
deliberation; and
         (e)   Motion to take action as is relevant to the deliberation and
when a relevant direction to prepare a reasoned statement and order of
recommendation or decision for approval at the next scheduled meeting.
      4.   As all meetings and hearings, except for executive sessions, are
open to public view and scrutiny, all deliberations by body members shall be
clearly audible in order to be heard by all persons present in the room and
capable of being later transcribed.
   (D)   Conflicts of interest: Council and Commission members shall disclose
potential conflicts of interest they may have regarding the subject matter of
the public hearing. They may ask the City Attorney for an opinion as to whether
they have a conflict of interest under law. A member with a conflict of
interest and, additionally, in a quasi-judicial proceeding, who discloses that
they will be unable to make a fair and impartial determination of the facts at
issue based solely upon the evidence presented at the hearing, shall recuse
themselves and request permission from the presiding chairman to absence
themselves from the hearing. A member for any other reason, desiring not to
participate in a matter before a public hearing shall advise the presiding
chairman of the reason therefor. A vote of the other members present shall be
called by the chairman which shall require a majority vote of the other members
of the city agency in order to be excused from the hearing.
   (E)   For legislative matters, testimony and other information may be
received by the body in any order chosen by the presiding chairman.
   (F)   For quasi-judicial matters such as, but not limited to, zoning or
subdivision applications, the presiding chairman shall receive testimony at the
public hearing in the following order:
      1.   Report to the body by city staff;
      2.   Presentation by the applicant;
      3.   Testimony of those in support of the application;
      4.   Testimony of those neutral to the application;
      5.   Testimony of those opposed to the application; and
      6.   Rebuttal presentation by the applicant.
   (G)   The Council or Commission may suspend any one (1) or more of these
rules by vote of one-half (1/2) plus one (1) of the full body, and the
presiding chairman shall have the authority to interpret and apply the
foregoing rules. An appeal of such interpretation or application may be made to
the Council, which will act on such appeal as expeditiously as possible.
Appeals during a council meeting may be decided during the public hearing
wherein the question arises, or may be decided at a later date, at the
council's discretion. (Ord. 435, 3-23-2026)
11-18-7: PROCEDURES FOR APPLICATIONS CONSIDERED AND DECIDED IN PUBLIC MEETING:
   (A)   Applications that will be considered and decided in public meetings
are not required to abide by the public hearing notice and posting requirements
of this Title or Idaho Code § 67-6509.
   (B)   Upon acceptance of a complete application, the Administrator or their
designee shall review such application and shall:
      1.   Schedule a public meeting with the Commission or Council, depending
upon the type of application; and
      2.   Send a summary of the application to applicable agencies and
political subdivisions and prepare a report and recommendation.
   (C)   Following the public meeting, the decision-making body shall provide
the applicant a reasoned statement in accord with I.C. §§ 67-6519 and 67-6535,
stating the reasons for the decision reached. Conditions of approval shall, in
most instances, be a part of the written decision. (Ord. 435, 3-23-2026)
11-18-8: ADMINISTRATIVE DECISION BY ADMINISTRATOR:
   (A)   Upon the acceptance of a complete application for which the
Administrator has authority to review and decide, the Administrator shall
prepare a written final Administrator's decision which shall be supported by a
reasoned statement in accord with I.C. §§ 67-6519 and 67-6535.
   (B)   The Administrator shall provide to the applicant notice of the final
decision. (Ord. 435, 3-23-2026)
11-18-9: COMMISSION DECISIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS:
   (A)   The Administrator shall schedule a hearing before the Commission after
the application is deemed complete.
   (B)   The Commission shall conduct public hearings in accordance with this
Title. The Commission may continue the hearing if it determines in its
discretion that additional information is necessary or until the applicable
agencies and political subdivisions have completed their final comments.
   (C)   The Commission shall provide the applicant a reasoned statement in
accord with I.C. §§ 67-6519 and 67-6535 within sixty (60) days after the date
of the public hearing, stating the reasons for the decision or recommendation
reached. For applications where the Commission is acting as a recommending
body, the Commission shall forward their reasoned statement and recommendation
to the Council. (Ord. 435, 3-23-2026)
11-18-10: CITY COUNCIL DECISIONS:
   (A)   The Administrator shall schedule a hearing before the Council when:
      1.   The Commission has issued and served its recommendation to the
Council; and
      2.   In matters which are only heard by the Council after the
Administrator determines that the application and staff review is complete.
   (B)   The Council shall conduct the hearing in accordance with NPCC § 11-18-
6.
   (C)   The Council shall provide the applicant a reasoned statement in accord
with I.C. §§ 67-6519 and 67-6535.
   (D)   Council approval of a comprehensive plan amendment shall be by
resolution.
   (E)   If the Council denies an annexation application, it shall not make any
decisions regarding any accompanying applications other than to declare the
same as moot due to a lack of jurisdiction.
   (F)   Following the approval of a zoning ordinance amendment, the Council
shall adopt an ordinance and, within thirty (30) days, publish a summary of the
ordinance in the official newspaper of the City. (Ord. 435, 3-23-2026)
11-18-11: CERTIFICATE OF ZONING COMPLIANCE:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of the certificate of zoning compliance is to
ensure that all new building construction or additions, site alterations, and/
or the change in use of an existing building or structure complies with all
provisions of this Title before any construction on the site is started and/or
the use is established.
   (B)   Applicability: These provisions apply to all requests for permits that
involve new building construction, building additions, exterior site
alterations and/or the establishment of a new use in an existing building or
structure. These provisions do not apply to interior building improvements
where the footprint of the existing structure is not enlarged or to exterior
building alterations, including but not limited to, the addition, removal, or
modification of architectural elements such as doors, windows, awnings, and
arcades; building remodels where all or a portion of a structure is modified,
including entrances, facades and rooflines; a change in exterior materials and/
or color scheme; or any other alteration that modifies the exterior appearance
of the building. These provisions do not apply to single-family detached and
single-family attached dwellings and/or accessory buildings.
   (C)   Contents of Application: The application for a certificate of zoning
compliance shall be signed by the owner or applicant attesting to the truth and
exactness of all information supplied on the application. Each application
shall clearly state that the permit shall expire and may be revoked if work has
not begun or is not substantially completed within one (1) year of permit
issuance. At a minimum, the application shall contain the following
information:
      1.   Name, address, and phone number of the applicant.
      2.   Legal description of the property.
      3.   Existing use.
      4.   Proposed use.
      5.   Zoning District.
      6.   Plan, drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions and the shape of
the lot to be built upon; the exact size and location of existing buildings on
the lot, if any; and the location and dimensions of the proposed building(s) or
alteration.
      7.   Building heights.
      8.   Number of off-street parking spaces or loading berths.
      9.   Number of dwelling units.
      10.   Proposed water and sewer facilities.
      11.   Such other matters as may be necessary to determine conformance
with, and provide for, the enforcement of this Title.
   (D)   Process: A certificate of zoning compliance shall be issued by the
Administrator when there is a demonstration that the development complies with
all provisions of this Title.
      1.   No certificate of zoning compliance shall be issued for any use on a
property in violation of this Title or on a property that contains structures
or uses in violation of this Title.
      2.   Within thirty (30) days after the receipt of the application, the
Administrator shall either approve or disapprove the application in conformance
with the provisions of this Title.
      3.   The certificate of zoning compliance shall be invalid:
         (a)   If the certificate was secured in violation of state or federal
law;
         (b)   Upon violation of any regulations of this Title on the subject
property; or
         (c)   If the conditions of the certificate of zoning compliance have
been violated. All further work shall cease on a project until the violation
has been remedied.
      4.   Certificates of zoning compliance shall expire and may be revoked if
said construction, alteration, or the use has not commenced or is not
substantially complete within one (1) year of the date of issuance of the
certificate of zoning compliance.
      5.   The certificate of zoning compliance may require inspections and
approvals specified in the approval of the application, including but not
limited to, those required by applicable building codes. (Ord. 435, 3-23-2026)
11-18-12: MEDIATION:
   (A)   A request for mediation may be filed with the Administrator by the
applicant, an affected person (as defined in I.C. § 67-6521), the Commission or
the Council at any point before final City action or after final decision but
prior to the filing of a judicial review.
   (B)   Mediation requests shall be processed by the Administrator in
accordance with the provisions of I.C. § 67-6510 and submitted to the Council
for the selection of a mediator and a determination of who are the parties who
shall determine the compensation of the mediator after the first meeting at the
outset of the mediation and who shall participate in at least one (1) mediation
session. The mediation expenses of the first meeting are to be paid by the
City, as required by I.C. § 67-6510, and which shall be paid out of the
Administrator's budget appropriation.
   (C)   The mediation meeting, dates and location shall be determined by the
Administrator in coordination with the mediator and the parties as determined
by the Council.
   (D)   The Administrator shall keep a record of who is participating in the
mediation and provide written meeting notices to the mediation participants in
accordance with the contact information provided by the participants.
   (E)   The mediation record shall be maintained by the Administrator. (Ord.
435, 3-23-2026)
11-18-13: APPEAL OF ADMINISTRATOR OR COMMISSION DECISIONS:
   (A)   Appeals: A right to appeal to the Council a decision of the
Administrator or the Commission shall be available to the applicant, the
Administrator, or an affected person, under the following procedures:
      1.   A notice of appeal shall be filed in writing with the Administrator
within fourteen (14) days after a written decision is issued. The notice of
appeal shall be filed together with the required fee and set forth the
following information:
         (a)   The decision being requested for appeal;
         (b)   The name and address of the person requesting the review and
their interest in the matter; and
         (c)   The specific grounds upon which the request for appeal is made.
      2.   All appeals shall be heard as a de novo public hearing before the
Council.
      3.   The Council may uphold, modify, or overrule the decision.
         (a)   In the case of an appeal of a decision of the Administrator:
            (1)   If the action is overruled, the Council shall issue a written
decision and send the matter back to the Administrator for action consistent
with the Council's decision.
            (2)   If the action of the Administrator is upheld, the Council
shall issue a written decision stating the decision and reasons for the
decision.
         (b)   In the case of an appeal of a decision of the Commission, if the
decision is modified or overruled, the Council shall issue findings consistent
with the decision.
      4.   Within ten (10) days after a decision has been rendered by the
Council, the Administrator shall send a copy of the written decision to the
applicant, the Administrator, or affected person(s) as applicable.
   (B)   Legislative actions and decisions, including but not limited to
annexations and right-of-way vacations, shall not be eligible for
reconsiderations or appeals. (Ord. 435, 3-23-2026)
11-18-14: RECONSIDERATIONS:
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. § 67-6535, on any application brought before the
Council affecting the use, occupancy, or development of real property,
including but not limited to those matters governed by this Title, Title XII,
and by Chapter 65 of Title 67 Idaho Code, a party may request that the Council
reconsider a decision pursuant to the terms of this section. Decisions and
recommendations of the Commission are not subject to reconsideration but may be
appealed to the Council as provided in this chapter.
      1.   A request for reconsideration shall be in writing and filed with the
City Clerk within fourteen (14) days of the final written decision. Upon
reconsideration, the decision may be affirmed, reversed or modified after
compliance with applicable procedural standards.
      2.   The request must identify specific deficiencies in the decision for
which reconsideration is sought.
      3.   If the request is timely filed, the Council shall schedule the
matter to be heard at a regular or specially scheduled meeting of the Council.
      4.   The Council may reconsider its decision only if it finds any of the
following:
         (a)   There was a clerical error in the decision;
         (b)    The decision resulted from fraud or mistake;
         (c)   There is new evidence for the record or a change in
circumstances;
         (d)   There was a procedural error;
         (e)   The Council previously rejected the application by a tie vote;
or
         (f)   The decision was made in violation of substantive law.
      5.   If the Council chooses to reconsider the final decision, the Council
shall provide the applicant or affected person a written decision on such
action. If the Council grants reconsideration in whole or in part, a hearing
before the Council will be scheduled to address the specific deficiencies
identified by the applicant or affected person, which shall be conducted
pursuant to the public hearing notice procedures set forth in this Title. The
issues examined upon reconsideration shall be limited to issues raised by the
petition for reconsideration and the record previously established, as well as
the applicable law. The cost of all required notices shall be borne by the
party(ies) seeking reconsideration of the decision and paid in advance.
      6.   Following the hearing on the reconsideration, the Council may
affirm, reverse, or modify, in whole or in part, its prior decision and shall
provide a written decision to the applicant and the affected person(s) within
sixty (60) days of receipt of the request for reconsideration. If the Council
fails to timely decide, the request for reconsideration is deemed denied. A
decision shall not be deemed final for purposes of judicial review unless the
process required in this section has been followed. The twenty-eight (28) day
time frame for seeking judicial review is tolled until the date of the written
decision regarding reconsideration or the expiration of the sixty (60) day
reconsideration period, whichever occurs first.
      7.   Once the Council has reconsidered any of its decisions relating to a
given application, as set forth hereinabove, it may not entertain any
additional or subsequent request for reconsideration, whether by the same or
any other interested party.
      8.   A failure to request reconsideration is a failure of the applicant
or affected person to exhaust administrative remedies. (Ord. 435, 3-23-2026)
11-18-15: REFILING LIMITATION ON DENIED APPLICATIONS:
Applications which have been found by the Administrator to be non-compliant, or
any other application for which the Administrator, Commission or Council has
taken a final action of denial, may not be refiled in substantially the same
form within one (1) year from the date of final City action of denial, provided
that the Administrator may waive the one-year requirement and accept a new
application where the subject property is affected by amendments to the
Comprehensive Plan or to this Title which materially affects the legal basis of
the denial. (Ord. 435, 3-23-2026)
**** ARTICLE A. SPECIFIC STANDARDS ****
SECTION:
11-18A-1: Annexations
11-18A-2: Alternative Compliance
11-18A-1: ANNEXATIONS:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish procedures and
standards for annexations.
   (B)   Applicability: The provisions of this Article shall apply to all
parcels within the New Plymouth Area of City Impact and all other annexable
parcels as provided by I.C. § 50-222.
   (C)   Process:
      1.   The annexation application process is governed by I.C. § 50-222.
      2.   Annexation applications must be accompanied by an application for
rezoning in accordance with Chapter 15 of this Title.
      3.   Annexation applications require a separate decision of approval or
denial by the City Council. In the case of a denial of a request for
annexation, all other accompanying applications are rendered moot.
      4.   The City Council is not required to reconsider a final action of
denial of an annexation application.
      5.   Following the approval of an annexation request, the Administrator
or designee shall provide an annexation ordinance to be adopted by the City
Council, which ordinance shall be filed with the Idaho Tax Commission as
required by law.
   (D)   Annexation Standards:
      1.   The parcel(s) which are the subject of the annexation application
shall meet the minimum dimensional standards of the accompanying rezoning
application.
      2.   The annexation application, together with all accompanying
applications and the record of proceedings shall provide assurance of the
following:
         (a)   That it is reasonably necessary for the orderly development of
the City;
         (b)   That it will contribute to, or will not adversely affect, the
efficient and economically viability of the City's tax-supported and fee-
supported services;
         (c)   That it will contribute to, or will not adversely affect, the
orderly development of private parcels which benefit from the cost-effective
availability of municipal services in the City's urbanized area;
         (d)   That it will contribute to, or will not adversely affect, an
equitable allocation of costs of public services in the management of
development in the City's urban fringe;
         (e)   The annexation complies with the applicable provisions of the
Comprehensive Plan;
         (f)   The annexation is in compliance with applicable provisions of
the accompanying rezoning application and the provisions of this Title; and
         (g)   The annexation is not materially detrimental to the public
health, safety, and welfare of the City, its residents, or the parcels that lie
within it.
   (E)   Development Agreement:
      1.   The City and/or an applicant may request a development agreement
consistent with I.C. § 67-6511A. The development agreement may be initiated by
the City or applicant as part of a request for annexation at any time prior to
the adoption of findings for such request.
      2.   The City Council may also require, as a condition of approval of the
annexation and accompanying rezoning application, that the applicant enter into
a development agreement which includes the conditions that assure compliance of
the annexation application with the annexation standards of subsection (D) of
this section. (Ord. 437, 5-20-2026)
11-18A-2: ALTERNATIVE COMPLIANCE:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this process is to provide for alternative
means in which to meet the intended purposes of certain development regulations
when explicit compliance is not feasible or the alternative means is superior
to what is required. The regulations of this section are intended to encourage
creative solutions to land use problems. The City recognizes that some specific
requirements of this Title do not anticipate all possible situations. Further,
the City recognizes that there may be land use proposals that conform to the
purpose, intent, and objectives of the regulations in this title but were not
anticipated in the specific regulations. This section sets forth an alternative
method of compliance in the event of these situations.
   (B)   Applicability:
      1.   This process is intended to replace specific requirements as set
forth in this Title and Title XII as follows:
TABLE 11-18A-2-1
ALTERNATIVE COMPLIANCE
 
Permit                                          Section
Common open space and site amenity requirements 11-4B
Landscaping requirements                        11-4A
 
      2.   Requests for alternative compliance are allowed only when one (1) or
more of the following conditions exist:
         (a)   Topography, soil, vegetation, or other site conditions are such
that full compliance is impossible or impractical;
         (b)   The site involves space limitations or an unusually shaped lot;
         (c)   Safety considerations make alternative compliance desirable;
         (d)   Other regulatory agencies or departments having jurisdiction are
requiring design standards that conflict with the requirements of this Title or
Title XII;
         (e)   The proposed design includes innovative design features based on
"new urbanism," "neotraditional design," or other architectural and/or site
designs that promote walkable and mixed-use neighborhoods; or
         (f)   Additional environmental quality improvements would result from
the alternative compliance.
      3.   Requests for alternative compliance of landscaping requirements may
also be based on the following conditions:
         (a)   Because of a change of use on an existing use, the required
landscape buffer is larger than can be provided; or
         (b)   The applicant is proposing a pond with a permanent water level
in a required landscape area.
   (C)   Process:
      1.   The applicant shall submit a written application for alternative
compliance prior to the submittal of a development application or upon the
determination that the development request does not comply with specific
provisions of this Title or Title XII.
      2.   An application and fees, in accord with Chapter 18 of this Title,
shall be submitted to the Administrator or designee on forms provided by the
Administrator.
      3.   The application shall specify:
         (a)   The specific requirements that are proposed to be modified;
         (b)   The reasons for the modification; and
         (c)   A demonstration of how the alternative means for compliance
meets the requirements' intended purpose.
      4.   The Administrator or designee shall apply the standard listed in
subsection (D) of this section and the findings listed in subsection (E) of
this section to review the request for alternative compliance.
   (D)   Standard: The proposed alternative means for compliance with the
specific requirements shall demonstrate that the alternative provides and equal
or superior means of meeting the intent and purpose of the regulation.
   (E)   Required Findings: In order to grant approval for an alternative
compliance application, the Administrator or designee shall determine the
following:
      1.   Strict adherence or application of the requirements are not
feasible; or
      2.   The alternative compliance provides an equal or superior means for
meeting the requirements; and
      3.   The alternative means will not be materially detrimental to the
public welfare or impair the intended uses and character of the surrounding
properties.
   (F)   Precedent: Alternative compliance shall be limited to the specific
project under consideration and shall not establish precedent for acceptance in
other cases. (Ord. 437, 5-20-2026)
***** CHAPTER 19
SANCTIONS *****
SECTION:
11-19-1: Purpose
11-19-2: Penalties and Enforcement
11-19-3: Enforcement of Private Covenants
11-19-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to provide criminal as well as civil sanctions
against persons who violate this Title. The remedies herein contained shall not
be deemed exclusive remedies and by choosing a criminal or civil remedy does
not amount to an election of remedies.
11-19-2: PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this Title or any person who
fails to comply with any provisions contained herein shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be punished by a fine not to exceed
three hundred dollars ($300.00) or by imprisonment not to exceed up to ten (10)
days in the County jail, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   Each day a violation is allowed to continue shall constitute a new and
separate offense.
   (C)   Nothing contained herein shall prevent the City Council, the
Commission, any public official or any private citizen from taking any lawful
action to restrain, prevent or abate any act, proposed act or action which is
in violation of or which would violate any provision of this Title. Should any
person successfully sue for the restraining, prevention or abatement of any act
or proposed act which would violate this Title that person shall be awarded all
costs and fees incurred in pursuing that action.
11-19-3: ENFORCEMENT OF PRIVATE COVENANTS:
Neither the City nor any employee or representative of the City shall be
required to enforce any private subdivision covenants or restrictions, unless
those specific restrictions were imposed as a condition of County approval for
zone change, conditional use, subdivision approval, etc., in which case County
enforcement shall be discretionary with the City Council. (Ord., 5-7-1984)
***** CHAPTER 20
PERMITS; ENFORCEMENT *****
(Rep. by Ord. 361, 8-23-2017)
***** CHAPTER 21
WELLHEAD PROTECTION *****
SECTION:
11-21-1: Short Title
11-21-2: Creation
11-21-3: Purpose
11-21-4: Definitions
11-21-5: Establishment of Wellhead Protection Zones
11-21-6: Restrictions Within Zone I of the Wellhead Protection Area
11-21-7: Permitted Uses
11-21-8: Restrictions Within Zone II of the Wellhead Protection Area
11-21-9: Administration
11-21-10: Severability
11-21-11: Effective Date
11-21-12: Conflicting Provisions
11-21-13: Publication
11-21-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known as the WELLHEAD PROTECTION ORDINANCE. (Ord. 204, 8-
3-92)
11-21-2: CREATION:
There is hereby enacted a new Chapter 21 in Title XI of the City Code. That
Chapter shall be entitled "Wellhead Protection". (Ord. 204, 8-3-92)
11-21-3: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to insure the provision of safe and sanitary
drinking water supply for the City by the establishment of wellhead protection
zones surrounding the wellheads for all wells which are the supply sources for
the City water system and by the designation and regulation of property uses
and conditions which may be maintained within such zones. (Ord. 204, 8-3-92)
11-21-4: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this Chapter the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings given in this Section:
HAZARDOUS or TOXIC WASTE or MATERIAL: Any waste or material which because of
its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or infectious characteristics
may:
   (A)   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or an
increase in serious irreversible or incapacitating reversible illness; or
   (B)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or to
the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed;
   (C)   Hazardous or toxic waste means any material or substance designated as
a hazardous or toxic substance by the United States of America acting through
the Environmental Protection Agency, or any successor agency, section 101 (14)
of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of
1980, or any material or substance designated as a hazardous or toxic substance
by the State of Idaho, acting through the Division of Environmental Quality or
any successor agency.
SANITARY LANDFILL: A disposal site where solid wastes, including putrescible
wastes, or hazardous wastes, are disposed of on land by placing earth cover
thereon.
WELLHEAD: The upper terminal of a well, including adapters, ports, seals,
valves and other attachments.
ZONE I: An area extending fifty feet (50') radially from the wellhead supplying
potable water to the City water system.
ZONE II: An area extending between the fifty feet (50') designated as Zone I
and the outer limit of the City impact area. (Ord. 204, 8-3-92)
11-21-5: ESTABLISHMENT OF WELLHEAD PROTECTION ZONES:
There is hereby established a use district to be known as a wellhead protection
area identified and described as all the area within the City limits and to
include the city impact area. It is further established that this area be
composed of two (2) zones, Zone I and Zone II as they are defined in Section
11-21-4. (Ord. 204, 8-3-92)
11-21-6: RESTRICTIONS WITHIN ZONE I OF THE WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA:
The following uses or conditions, including but not limited to, shall be and
are hereby prohibited within Zone I of the wellhead protection area:
   (A)   Surface use or storage of hazardous or toxic material, expressly
including herbicide and pesticide applications to the soils, ground water or
surface water.
   (B)   Sanitary land fills.
   (C)   Hazardous or toxic waste disposal sites.
   (D)   Underground storage tanks.
   (E)   Sanitary sewer lines and septic systems within one hundred feet (100')
of a wellhead (existing systems within 100 feet must be maintained in very good
repair and monitored on a regular basis). (Ord. 204, 8-3-92)
11-21-7: PERMITTED USES:
The following uses shall be permitted only within Zone II of the wellhead
protection area:
   (A)   Most uses will not be restricted as long as these uses comply with the
existing ordinances, County, State and Federal regulations pertaining to the
discharge of contaminates. (Ord. 204, 8-3-92)
11-21-8: RESTRICTIONS WITHIN ZONE II OF THE WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA:
The following uses or conditions, including but not limited to, shall be and
are hereby prohibited within Zone II of the wellhead protection area, whether
or not such uses or conditions may otherwise be ordinarily included as a part
of a use permitted under Section
11-21-7 of this Chapter:
   (A)   Sanitary landfills.
   (B)   Hazardous or toxic waste disposal sites.
   (C)   Underground injection wells.
   (D)   Sanitary sewer lines and septic systems within one hundred feet (100')
of a wellhead (existing systems within 100 feet must be maintained in very good
repair and monitored on a regular basis).
   (E)   Agricultural uses, immediately adjacent to a wellhead and outside Zone
I shall be restricted, specifically the raising, keeping of livestock will be
prohibited within five hundred feet (500') of wellhead and other similar uses
beyond this limit will be subject to restrictions if warranted. (Ord. 204, 8-3-
92)
11-21-9: ADMINISTRATION:
The policies and procedures for administration of any wellhead protection zone
established under this Chapter, including without limitation those applicable
to nonconforming uses, exceptions, enforcement and penalties, shall be the same
as provided in the existing zoning ordinance for the City of New Plymouth, as
the same is presently enacted or may from time to time be amended. (Ord. 204,
8-3-92)
11-21-10: SEVERABILITY:
If any portion of this Chapter is found to be unenforceable or unconstitutional
for any reason, the remaining portion of this Chapter shall remain in full
force and effect. (Ord. 204, 8-3-92)
11-21-11: EFFECTIVE DATE:
Ordinance 204 codified herein shall be in full force and effect after its
passage and publication as provided by law. (Ord. 204, 8-3-92)
11-21-12: CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
Any portions of any existing ordinances which are in direct conflict with this
Chapter are hereby repealed insofar as the conflict exists. (Ord. 204, 8-3-92)
11-21-13: PUBLICATION:
Ordinance 204 codified herein may be published by summary as provided by Idaho
Code. (Ord. 204, 8-3-92)
***** CHAPTER 22
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS *****
SECTION:
11-22-1: Purpose
11-22-2: Time Of Filing
11-22-3: Recommendation By Commission
11-22-4: Determination Of Need
11-22-5: Commission Consideration
11-22-6: Time Limits Stayed
11-22-7: Form Of Development Agreement Application
11-22-8: Phasing Plan And Proposed Phasing Schedule
11-22-9: Modification Of A Development Agreement
11-22-10: Termination Of Development Agreements
11-22-11: Public Hearings
11-22-12: Enforcement Of Development Agreements
11-22-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of a development agreement is to provide a vehicle for development
or uses in areas where, in the opinion of the Council, the use of a development
agreement will assure compliance with the required rezone findings and
conclusions. Development agreements can be used when a determination is made
that a proposed rezone by itself is not sufficient to ensure compliance and the
use of a development agreement would allow a development to proceed under
stricter regulations than those imposed generally in the proposed zoning
district. Nothing in this Section shall be construed as relieving the property
which is subject to development agreement restrictions from further compliance
with all other permit and code requirements applicable because of the zoning
designation of the property. Restrictions imposed upon property as a result of
a development agreement are in addition to all other zoning ordinance
requirements. (Ord. 235, 3-3-1997)
11-22-2: TIME OF FILING:
Simultaneously with or after an application for rezone has been received by the
Administrator, a request to enter into a development agreement for an affected
parcel may be submitted by the rezone applicant. In the absence of a request by
a rezone applicant, a development agreement may be required by the Council at
the Council's rezone hearing, or may be required by Council upon recommendation
from the Commission following the Commission's rezone hearing. (Ord. 235, 3-3-
1997)
11-22-3: RECOMMENDATION BY COMMISSION:
In the event of a recommendation by the Commission that a development agreement
should be entered into, the rezone shall be forwarded to the City Council with
a recommendation that the requested rezone be denied or that it be remanded to
the Commission, with the Council requiring an application for a development
agreement to be submitted by the applicant. If, however, the applicant agrees
to submit an application for a development agreement prior to the conclusion of
the Commission's rezone hearing, then the Commission shall defer its
recommendation to the City Council on the rezone application until a public
hearing is held on the development agreement application. After the public
hearing on the development agreement application is held, the Commission shall
forward its recommendation on both the rezone and development agreement
requests to the City Council. (Ord. 235, 3-3-1997)
11-22-4: DETERMINATION OF NEED:
In the event no development agreement has been submitted to the Council at the
time of its rezone hearing, in the event a determination is made by the Council
that a development agreement should be entered into, the Council shall remand
the matter back to the Commission, with the Council requiring an application
for a development agreement to be submitted by the applicant. The Council
shall, upon remand direct the Commission on the specific issues to be addressed
by the development agreement. The Commission shall then proceed as specified in
this Chapter. (Ord. 235, 3-3-1997)
11-22-5: COMMISSION CONSIDERATION:
In the event a developer submits an application for a development agreement in
accordance with Section
11-22-2 or
11-22-3 of this Chapter, the developer's application for a development
agreement shall be taken to the Commission at the time of the scheduled rezone
hearing. The Commission shall, following consideration of the rezone and
development agreement applications, forward its recommendation to the City
Council regarding each of the applicant's requests. (Ord. 235, 3-3-1997)
11-22-6: TIME LIMITS STAYED:
In the event a request for a development agreement is filed pursuant to section
11-22-2 or
11-22-3 of this chapter, all time limits required by this Code may be stayed
upon affirmative vote of the Council or commission. (Ord. 235, 3-3-1997)
11-22-7: FORM OF DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT APPLICATION:
All applications for development agreements shall be in a form as required by
the City Clerk or the Zoning Administrator. No application shall be accepted by
the Clerk which does not include the following:
   (A)   An affidavit or a sworn statement by the owner of the property
agreeing that the use of the property shall be subject to the uses set out in
the proposed development agreement or as the agreement may be later modified.
   (B)   The specific use or uses of the property upon which the development
agreement is sought.
   (C)   The concept plan, which shall include at a minimum:
      1.   Three (3) site plans and one (1) eight and one-half inch by eleven
inch (81/2" x 11") reduction showing:
         (a)   Existing structures which will remain, labeled as to existing
and proposed uses.
         (b)   Building footprint, height, number of stories, proposed uses
(office, retail, restaurant, etc.), and square footage of proposed structures.
If residential, overall density and number of dwelling units per building. (If
single-family residential, information on proposed structures is not
necessary.)
         (c)   North arrow.
         (d)   Scale.
         (e)   Property boundary.
         (f)   Name(s) of applicant, owner(s) (if different than applicant);
plan preparers and project.
         (g)   Size of project.
         (h)   Existing vegetation, labeled as to remain or be removed.
         (i)   Existing and generalized proposed grades for hillside
developments.
         (j)   Parking areas with total number of parking spaces shown.
         (k)   Locations and widths of right-of-way, easements, canals, ditches
and property lines.
         (l)   Drainage features.
         (m)   Conceptual landscape plan (landscape areas, sizes and heights).
   (D)   The time period for which the agreement is requested to be valid,
including the time period with which the development or use must commence and
the time period within which the development and the terms of the agreement are
to be completed.
   (E)   A statement that failure to comply with all commitments in the
approved development agreement shall be deemed a consent to rezone the property
to the pre-existing zone, or in the case of an initial zone at annexation, a
zone deemed appropriate by the Council.
   (F)   If the development agreement is being requested by the rezone
applicant, as opposed to having been required by Council, a statement must be
included that all time limits required by this Code are waived. (Ord. 235, 3-3-
1997)
   (G)   A fee as set by resolution of the City Council shall accompany the
application to defray the costs of the notice and publication requirements of
the public hearings. (Ord. 375, 6-18-2018)
11-22-8: PHASING PLAN AND PROPOSED PHASING SCHEDULE:
   (A)   Process: Upon receipt of an application for development agreement, the
City Clerk or the Zoning Administrator shall work with the applicant to prepare
a development agreement. The development agreement shall include the
requirements as set out in subsection
11-22-7(C) of this chapter and any other information which, in the discretion
of the City Clerk or the Zoning Administrator, would address the concerns for
the development. Such concerns addressed may include, but shall not be limited
to, density, bulk, site design, mitigation of impacts on the surrounding
neighborhood, appearance, provision of utilities or public facilities and
restrictions on use. The draft of the development agreement shall be reviewed
by the City Attorney and City Engineer as to form prior to being sent to the
Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (B)   Approval Of A Development Agreement:
      1.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold a public hearing on
the draft development agreement and the rezone request, and make recommendation
to the Council. The Commission may recommend approval or denial and may
recommend the addition of conditions, terms, duties or obligations to the
development agreement.
      2.   The Council shall hold a public hearing on the draft agreement and
the rezone request, and shall review the recommendation from the Planning and
Zoning Commission. The Council may approve, deny, or may add conditions, terms,
duties or obligations to the development agreement. Approval or denial of
development agreements shall be at the sole discretion of the Council.
      3.   Upon approval of a development agreement or any modification
submitted by the Council or the applicant, said approval shall be recorded at
the expense of the applicant and prior to the rezone approval. Proof of
recording must be submitted by the applicant prior to the passage of the rezone
ordinance by the City Council. The development agreement, or any modification
thereto, and all conditions, terms, duties or obligations included therein,
shall run with the land and shall be considered continuing obligations of the
owner, co- owners, subsequent owners and each other person acquiring an
interest in the property. An owner, co-owner, each subsequent owner or other
person acquiring an interest in the property which is restricted by a
development agreement or modification adopted pursuant to this Section, shall
comply with the terms, conditions, obligations and duties contained in the
development agreement or modification. (Ord. 235, 3-3-1997)
11-22-9: MODIFICATION OF A DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT:
Development agreements may only be modified after public hearing by the City
Council. Major modifications as determined by the Zoning Administrator require
a hearing and recommendation from the Planning and Zoning Commission prior to
Council's hearing. (Ord. 235, 3-3-1997)
11-22-10: TERMINATION OF DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS:
   (A)   Development agreements may be amended or terminated by the City
Council, after public hearing, for failure to comply with the commitments
expressed in the development agreement.
   (B)   Upon termination of the development agreement, the Council shall
revert the property to the prior zone, or in the case of an initial zone at
annexation, to a zone deemed appropriate by the Council. All uses of the
property which are not consistent with the subsequently designated zone
following termination of the development agreement shall cease. The owner of
the property shall apply for a conditional use for the property if the use is
conditionally allowed within the subsequently designated zone. (Ord. 235, 3-3-
1997)
11-22-11: PUBLIC HEARINGS:
Public hearings required under this Section shall be conducted and notice shall
be provided as is described in this Code, provided, however, that under no
circumstances shall the notice and hearing requirements be less than what is
required by section 67-6509, Idaho Code. (Ord. 235, 3-3-1997)
11-22-12: ENFORCEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS:
Development agreements may be enforced by the City through any means deemed to
be appropriate, including, but not limited to, specific enforcement, injunctive
relief, damages or criminal penalty for violation of this Section. The
enforcement options available to the City shall not be considered exclusive.
(Ord. 235, 3-3-1997)
TITLE XII
SUBDIVISIONS
***** CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS *****
SECTION:
12-1-1: Purpose
12-1-2: Applicability
12-1-3: Authority
12-1-4: Subdivision Approval Required
12-1-5: Term Of Permits
12-1-6: Fees
12-1-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter shall be to implement a general rule for the
subdivision of land in the City of New Plymouth. This chapter shall be based on
the officially adopted comprehensive plan of the City and is enacted in order
to promote and protect the public health, safety, comfort, convenience,
prosperity, and general welfare and to achieve the following objectives:
   (A)   To promote the achievement of the proposals and goals of the New
Plymouth Comprehensive Plan.
   (B)   To advance the city as a self-sufficient employment and economic
center.
   (C)   To encourage excellence and creativity in the design of all future
developments and to preserve the natural beauty of New Plymouth.
   (D)   To encourage orderly growth and development and to avoid scattered
development of land that results in:
      1.   Lack of water supply, sewer service, drainage, transportation
facilities, or otherwise essential public services, including schools; or
      2.   Excessive expenditure of public funds for the supply of such
services.
   (E)   To provide desirable and appropriately located living areas and a
variety of dwelling types and densities with adequate provision for sunlight,
fresh air, and usable open space.
   (F)   To provide for the manner and form of making and filing of plats.
   (G)   To specify the requirements as to the extent and the manner in which:
      1.   Roads, streets, and/or driveways shall be created and improved,
including vehicular network and block configurations;
      2.   Water and sewer and other utility mains, piping connections, or
other facilities shall be installed;
      3.   Pedestrian pathways consistent with the comprehensive plan are to be
located and designed; and
      4.   Opportunities for future transit routes and stations are created.
   (H)   To protect existing surface waters throughout the city.
   (I)   To specify the administration of the regulations of this chapter by
defining the powers and duties of approval authorities. (Ord. 435, 3-23-2026)
12-1-2: APPLICABILITY:
These regulations shall apply to the subdivision of all land within the legally
defined New Plymouth City limits. It shall be unlawful and considered a
violation of this Title for any person to initiate or cause to be initiated the
subdivision of any land or real property in any manner which violates, omits,
or fails to conform to any procedure, design or improvement standard, and/or
requirement set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 435, 3-23-2026)
12-1-3: AUTHORITY:
The ordinance codified in this chapter is adopted pursuant to authority granted
by I.C. §§ 67-6501 et seq. and 50-1301 et seq., and the Idaho Constitution
article 12, section 2, as amended or subsequently codified. No subdivision plat
required by this Title or the Idaho Code shall be admitted to the public land
records of the county, or recorded by the county recorder, until such
subdivision plat has received final approval by the Council and signature of
the City Engineer. (Ord. 435, 3-23-2026)
12-1-4: SUBDIVISION APPROVAL REQUIRED:
Any person desiring to create a subdivision as defined in chapter 2 of this
Title shall submit all necessary applications to the Administrator. No final
plat shall be filed with the county recorder of improvements made on the
property until the plat has been acted upon by the Commission and Council. No
lots shall be sold until the plat has been recorded in the office of the county
recorder. (Ord. 435, 3-23-2026)
12-1-5: TERM OF PERMITS:
   (A)   Failure to Submit Final Plat: Approval of a preliminary plat or
combined preliminary and final plat shall become null and void if the applicant
fails to obtain the City Engineer's signature on the final plat within two (2)
years of the approval of the preliminary plat or the combined preliminary and
final plat.
   (B)   Phased Development: In the event that the development of the
preliminary plat is made in successive phases in an orderly and reasonable
manner, and conforms substantially to the approved preliminary plat, such
segments, if signed by the City Engineer within successive intervals of two (2)
years, may be considered for final approval without resubmission for
preliminary plat approval.
   (C)   Authorize Extension: Upon written request and filing by the applicant
prior to the termination of the period in accord with subsections (A) and (B)
of this section, the Administrator may authorize a single extension of time to
obtain the City Engineer's signature on the final plat not to exceed two (2)
years. Additional time extensions up to two (2) years as determined and
approved by the City Council may be granted. With all extensions, the
Administrator or City Council may require the preliminary plat or combined
preliminary and final plat to comply with the current provisions of this Title.
   (D)   Failure to Meet Timelines: If the above timelines are not met and the
applicant does not receive a time extension, the property shall be required to
go through the platting procedure again. (Ord. 435, 3-23-2026)
12-1-6: FEES:
   (A)   Filing Fees: At the time of submission of applications required or
authorized by this Title, the applicant shall pay a filing fee as established
by the City Council in accord with Title XI, Chapter 18 "Administration."
   (B)   Fees Not Refundable: Fees to be charged for the various procedures set
forth in this Title are not refundable, except where a petition or application
is withdrawn at least three (3) weeks prior to the date of its scheduled public
hearing, and then only after order by the City Council. (Ord. 435, 3-23-2026)
***** CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS *****
SECTION:
12-2-1: General Interpretation
12-2-2: Definitions
12-2-1: GENERAL INTERPRETATION:
For the purpose of this Title, certain terms or words used herein shall be
interpreted as follows:
   (A)   The word "person" includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company or corporation, as well as an individual.
   (B)   The present tense includes the future tense, the singular number
includes the plural, and the plural includes the singular.
   (C)   The word "shall" is a mandatory requirement, the word "may" is a
permissive requirement, and the word "should" is a preferred requirement.
   (D)   The words "used" or "occupied" include the words "intended, designed
or arranged to be used or occupied."
   (E)   The word "lot" includes the words "plot," "parcel," and "tract."
   (F)   The masculine shall include the feminine. (Ord. 435, 3-23-2026)
12-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
ADMINISTRATOR: The administrator of the New Plymouth planning and zoning
department or an authorized representative, including their staff.
ALLEY: A minor public way providing secondary access at the back or side of a
property.
CITY: The City of New Plymouth.
CITY CODE: The City of New Plymouth City Code as adopted by the Council. In
addition, for purposes of this Title, City Code when referenced herein includes
all ordinances, policies, resolutions, standards, manuals, rules and
regulations as amended, revised, and compiled and adopted by Council and shall
be, and the same hereby are, adopted and incorporated by reference herein.
CITY ENGINEER: The City Engineer of the City of New Plymouth.
COMMISSION: The Zoning and Planning Commission of the City.
COMMON AREA/LOT: Land within a subdivision, not individually owned or dedicated
for public use but rather owned by a homeowners' or business owners'
association which is designed and intended for the common use or enjoyment of
the residents of the subdivision to be operated and maintained by the
homeowners' or business owners' association. It may include complementary
structures and improvements.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The Comprehensive Plan for the City officially adopted by
the Council.
COUNCIL: The City Council of the City.
COUNTY RECORDER: The office of the County Recorder of Payette County, Idaho.
COUNTY SURVEYOR: That registered surveyor appointed by the Payette County
Commissioners to check plats and make such surveys, maps and plats ordered by
the Board.
CUL-DE-SAC: A dead end street provided with turnaround space at its terminus.
DEAD END STREET: A street connecting to another street at one end only and not
having provision for vehicular turnaround at its terminus.
DEDICATION: The voluntary setting apart of land or interests in land by the
landowner, for use by the public and accepted by the City in a manner
recognized by Idaho law.
EASEMENT: An interest in real property generally established in a recorded real
estate document, on a recorded plat, or by operation of law, to reserve,
convey, or dedicate the use of land for a specialized or limited purpose,
without transfer of fee title. Such specified uses may include: transportation
facilities, utilities, access, stormwater drainage facilities, etc.
EMERGENCY ACCESS: A means of vehicular access, other than primary access, to a
subdivision or development for emergency services only, improved to City
standards and specifications and approved by the chief of the Fire District
and, if applicable, the Payette County Sheriff.
ENGINEERING PLANS: Plans, profiles, cross sections and other required details
for the construction of public improvements or other required improvements,
prepared by a registered engineer, in accordance with the approved preliminary
plat and in compliance with any applicable development agreements and/or
conditions of approval, existing standards of design and construction approved
by the Council and also in compliance with the City Code, as defined herein,
regardless of details on an approved preliminary plat, unless stated otherwise
in the preliminary plat order of decision or development agreement.
FIRE DISTRICT: The New Plymouth Rural Fire Protection District.
FLAG LOT: A lot having access to a public road via a narrow private driveway,
said driveway having a minimum width of thirty feet (30') and a maximum length
of one hundred fifty feet (150'). The minimum driveway width acts as the
required frontage on a public street, regardless of the frontage requirement in
the underlying zoning district.
FLOODPLAIN: Defined by FEMA floodplain mapping as adopted by the City.
FLOODWAY: Defined by FEMA floodplain mapping as adopted by the City.
FRONTAGE: That boundary of a lot along an existing or proposed public or
private street or alley. The minimum driveway width for a flag lot acts as the
required lot frontage, regardless of the frontage width requirement in the
underlying zoning district. Lots may have more than one frontage.
FUTURE ACQUISITION: A map adopted by the Council designating general land areas
MAP: proposed for acquisition for public facilities such as parks, schools,
fire stations, police stations, libraries, sewer facility areas, City well
areas or other public facilities:
HEALTH DEPARTMENT: The state health or state district health department.
IRRIGATION FACILITIES: Includes canals, laterals, ditches, conduits, gates,
pumps, and associated equipment necessary for the supply, delivery and drainage
of irrigation water.
LOT: A portion of a recorded subdivision intended as a unit for transfer of
ownership, either individual, business or common, or for development.
Additional specific definitions applicable to lots, including but not limited
to, corner lots, interior lots, lot frontage, etc., are found in NPCC § 11-2-2.
OWNER: An individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership, or corporation
having sufficient proprietary interest in land to be subdivided to commence and
maintain proceedings under these regulations. The owner may assign, in writing,
application submittal and subdivision development authority to an applicant who
is not the owner. To the extent an owner is applying for subdivision of
property in its own name, such owner shall be the "applicant" for purposes of
this Title.
PLAT: The owner may assign, in writing, application submittal and subdivision
development authority to an applicant who is not the owner. To the extent an
owner is applying for subdivision of property in its own name, such owner shall
be the "applicant" for purposes of this Title.
PLAT, FINAL: A plan of a subdivision, dedication or any portion thereof
prepared for filing and recording by the Payette County Recorder and containing
those elements and requirements set forth in this Title and in I.C. §§ 50-1301
et seq.
PLAT, PRELIMINARY: A preliminary plat of a proposed subdivision or dedication,
including supporting data, containing the elements and requirements set forth
in this Title and in I.C. §§ 50-1301 et seq.
PLAT, RECORDED: A final plat bearing all of the signed certificates of approval
required in this Title and Idaho Code and duly recorded in the County
Recorder's office.
PRESSURIZED IRRIGATION SYSTEM: A pressurized water distribution system that
distributes non-potable water to land for irrigation purposes.
RESERVE STRIP: A strip of land between a partial street and adjacent property,
which is reserved or held in public ownership for future street extension or
widening.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: A portion of land dedicated or reserved for public use which
normally includes streets, sidewalks, utilities or other service functions.
SANITARY RESTRICTION: The requirement that no building or shelter which will
require water supply facility or a sewage disposal facility for people using
the premises where such building or shelter is located shall be erected until
written approval is first obtained from the Idaho Department of Health and
Welfare by its administrator or his/her delegate approving plans and
specifications either for public water and/or sewage facilities, or individual
parcel water and/or sewage facilities for the particular land.
STANDARD SPECIFICATION: The Standard Specifications for Public Works of the
City officially adopted by the Council and including all subsequent amendments
thereto.
STREET: A right of way which provides vehicular and pedestrian access to
adjacent properties, the dedication of which has been officially accepted by
the council. The term "street" also includes the terms highway, thoroughfare,
parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane, place and other such terms.
   Highway: A street designated as a highway by the state or federal agency
responsible therefor.
   Street, Arterial: Any street, existing or proposed, with the primary purpose
of carrying fast or heavy traffic.
   Street, Collector: Any street with the primary purpose of carrying traffic
from minor streets to other collector streets and arterial streets.
   Street, Frontage: A minor street, parallel to and adjacent to an arterial
street, which has the primary purpose of providing access to abutting
properties.
   Street, Loop: A minor street which forms a loop and returns to the same
street from which it originated. A street forming a connection between two (2)
other streets is not considered a loop.
   Street, Minor: A street other than the main thoroughfare or collector
street, that has the primary purpose of providing access to abutting
properties.
   Street, Partial: A street other than the main thoroughfare or collector
street, that has the primary purpose of providing access to abutting
properties.
   Street, Private: A street that is not publicly owned and maintained, and
provides access only to the private user(s).
   Street, Stub: A street connecting to another street at one end only but
having provision for future connectivity and may or may not have a temporary
vehicular circular turnaround at its temporary terminus until such time that
connection is provided.
SUBDIVIDER: An individual, corporation, firm, corporation, partnership,
association, syndicate, trust or other legal entity that executes the
application and initiates proceedings for the subdividing of a lot, tract or
parcel of land in accord with the provisions of this Title and City Code. The
subdivider need not be the owner of the property; however, he shall be an agent
of the owner or have sufficient proprietary rights in the property to represent
the owner. A subdivider may also be referred to in this Title as a "developer."
SUBDIVISION: The division of a lot, tract, or parcel of land into two (2) or
more lots for the purpose of transfer of ownership or for the construction of
improvements thereon; and the recorded plat thereof. A subdivision does not
include any of the following:
   (A)   An adjustment of lot lines as shown on a recorded plat which does not
reduce the area, frontage, width, depth or building setback lines of each
building site below the minimum zoning requirements, and does not change the
original number of lots in any block on the recorded plat;
   (B)   An allocation of land in the settlement of an estate of a decedent or
a court decree for the distribution of property;
   (C)   The unwilling sale of land as a result of legal condemnation as
defined and allowed in Idaho Code;
   (D)   Widening of existing streets to conform to the Comprehensive Plan;
   (E)   The acquisition of street rights-of-way by a public agency in
conformance with the Comprehensive Plan;
   (F)   The exchange of land for the purpose of straightening property
boundaries which does not result in the change of the present land usage; and
   (G)   A division of land into parcels of five (5) acres or more designated
to be used solely for agricultural purposes, and which does not involve any new
street dedication, other than dedications widening existing streets.
SURVEYOR: A person authorized by the state of Idaho to practice the profession
of land surveying.
TRACT: A generic term that does not denote a specific condition such as a lot
(which is platted) or parcel (which is unplatted). Used when speaking of both
platted and unplatted land.
UTILITIES: Installation of facilities, underground or overhead, for conducting
water, sewage, gas or electricity and similar facilities providing service to
and used by the public, and operated by any person, firm, corporation,
municipal department, or board duly authorized by state or municipal
regulations. Utility or utilities as used herein may also refer to such
persons, firms, corporations, departments, or boards, as applicable herein.
VICINITY MAP: A small scale map showing the location of a tract of land in
relation to a larger area. (Ord. 115, 10-4-1976, eff. 10-21-1976; amd. Ord.
311, 10-2-2006; Ord. 435, 3-23-2026)
***** CHAPTER 3
PROCEDURE FOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL *****
SECTION:
12-3-1: Applicability
12-3-2: Preliminary Plat Process
12-3-3: Final Plat Process
12-3-4: Combined Preliminary Plat And Final Plat Process
12-3-5: Lot Line Adjustments
12-3-6: Required Findings
12-3-7: Dedication
12-3-1: APPLICABILITY:
   (A)   Subdivision Processes: There are three (3) processes that govern the
subdivision of land: preliminary plat, final plat, and combined preliminary/
final plat. The process to be followed will depend on the property, the number
of lots created, and the type of land use proposed and/or allowed on the
property.
   (B)   Exceptions: The three (3) processes apply to all requests for the
subdivision of property with the following exceptions:
      1.   A parcel created by court decree that meets the dimensional
standards of the zoning district(s) in effect at the date of decree shall be
deemed eligible for development. Any parcel created by court decree that does
not meet the dimensional standards of the applicable zoning district(s) in
effect at the date of the court decree shall be recognized as a parcel for
transfer of ownership; however, the parcel shall not be eligible for
development including any building permits for renovation or repair of an
existing structure.
      2.   A division of land into parcels of five (5) acres or more designated
to be used solely for agricultural purposes, and which does not involve any new
street dedication, other than dedications widening existing streets.
      3.   Adjustment of property lines in accord with NPCC § 12-3-5.
(Ord. 115, 10-4-76, eff. 10-21-1976; amd. Ord. 435, 3-23-2026)
12-3-2: PRELIMINARY PLAT PROCESS:
   (A)   Preapplication Conference: The applicant shall complete a
preapplication conference with the Administrator or designee prior to the
submittal of an application for a preliminary plat. The purpose of the meeting
is to discuss early and informally the purpose and effect of this Title and the
criteria and standards contained herein. The preapplication conference shall
include at least one (1) copy of a sketch plan. The sketch plan shall include
the entire developmental scheme of the proposed subdivision in schematic form
and include the following:
      1.   The general layout and approximate dimensions of streets, blocks and
lots in sketch form;
      2.   The existing conditions and characteristics of the land on and
adjacent to the proposed subdivision site; and
      3.   The areas set aside for schools, parks and other public facilities.
   (B)   Application Requirements: An application, map, and fees, in accord
with chapter 18, Title XI, New Plymouth City Code, shall be submitted to the
Administrator. At the discretion of the Administrator or City Engineer,
appropriate supplementary information may also be required to sufficiently
detail the proposed development within any special development area, including
but not limited to, hillside, planned unit development, floodplain,
manufactured home parks, and/or hazardous or unique areas of development.
   (C)   Content of Preliminary Plat: The contents of the preliminary plat and
related information shall be in such form as required by the Administrator;
however, the subdivider shall provide any additional maps or data deemed
necessary by the Commission. The subdivider shall provide the Administrator the
following information:
      1.   A copy of the completed application.
      2.   A copy of the preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision, drawn in
accordance with this Title's requirements; each copy of the preliminary plat
shall be on specified paper, with dimensions not less than twenty-four inches
by thirty-six inches (24" x 36"), and drawn to a scale not less than one inch
(1") to one hundred feet (100'), to include the date drafted, the person
drafting the document and north arrow. Any other scale requires prior
authorization from city staff. North shall be oriented to the top or to the
left on a landscape oriented plan.
      3.   A copy of the preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision on eleven
inch by seventeen inch (11" x 17") paper.
      4.   An electronic copy (PDF or other) of the preliminary plat.
      5.   Specific information as requested pertaining to any special
development areas, such as hillside, planned unit development, floodplain,
manufactured home park, or hazardous or unique areas of development.
   (D)   Requirement of Preliminary Plat: The following shall be shown on the
preliminary plat or shall be submitted separately:
      1.   The name of the proposed subdivision;
      2.   The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the subdivider, the
subdivider's representative, engineer of record or surveyor who prepared the
plat;
      3.   The legal description of the subdivision prepared by a licensed
engineer or land surveyor;
      4.   All preliminary plats must be sealed by a licensed engineer or land
surveyor;
      5.   A general narrative about the proposed subdivision;
      6.   A map of the entire area scheduled for development to include any
adjoining lands in the same ownership;
      7.   A vicinity map showing the relationship of the proposed plat to the
surrounding area (one-half mile minimum radius, scale optional);
      8.   A three-hundred-foot scaled vicinity map showing the preliminary
plat, proposed lots, boundaries, rights-of-way, and adjoining parcels within
three hundred feet (300') on eight and one-half inch by eleven inch (8.5" x
11") paper;
      9.   The ownership, land use and existing zoning of the proposed
subdivision and the adjacent lands within three hundred feet (300') of the
outside preliminary plat property dimensions;
      10.   Streets, street names, rights-of-way, and roadway widths, including
adjoining streets and roadways within three hundred feet (300') of the outside
preliminary plat property dimensions;
      11.   Lot lines and blocks showing the dimensions to the nearest foot and
numbers of each;
      12.   Contour lines, shown at five-foot intervals where land slope is
greater than ten percent (10%) and at two-foot (2') intervals where land slope
is ten percent (10%) or less, referenced to an established benchmark, including
location and elevation;
      13.   All proposed or existing utilities, including but not limited to,
storm and sanitary sewers, irrigation laterals, ditches, drainages, bridges,
culverts, water mains, fire hydrants, pressure irrigation and streetlights.
Specifically, the utility information shall include:
         (a)   Proposed pipe sizes and for gravity pipelines, flow direction,
invert depths at manholes, manhole locations, and any other information
required to clarify the proposed system.
         (b)   A description of the proposed method of handling stormwater
generated by the development, including the size and location of facilities.
The subdivider shall provide preliminary report runoff calculations for the
development along with conceptual plans of the proposed facilities.
         (c)   Vicinity map showing the relationship of the proposed plat to
the surrounding surface water features (one-half mile minimum radius)
including, but not limited to, all irrigation ditches, drainages, etc.
         (d)   All off-site improvements required to service the development.
      14.   Any dedications to the public and/or easements, together with a
statement of location, dimensions and purpose of each;
      15.   A draft agreement between the developer and City specifying the
duties and obligations of the developer and the City in maintaining stormwater
retention areas;
      16.   Provide a common lot/open space table to include: location, size in
acres, uses and ownership of each common lot;
      17.   Provide hydro and soils reports that are no more than twelve (12)
months old;
      18.   Provide a site data table on the cover sheet to include the
following information:
         (a)   Total site acreage.
         (b)   Current zoning.
         (c)   Proposed zoning.
         (d)   Utility providers.
         (e)   Protection services.
         (f)   School district.
         (g)   Irrigation district.
         (h)   Total lots.
         (i)   Average lot size.
         (j)   Total common lots.
         (k)   Density.
         (l)   Percent and type of open space.
      19.   Any additional required information for special developments.
   (E)   Action on Preliminary Plat: Action on all preliminary plat
applications shall comply with the public notice and hearing procedures in
accord with chapter 18, Title XI, New Plymouth City Code. In accord with
chapter 18, Title XI, New Plymouth City Code, a decision on a preliminary plat
is made by the Council based on the recommendations of the Commission.
(Ord. 115, 10-4-76, eff. 10-21-1976; amd. Ord. 435, 3-23-2026)
12-3-3: FINAL PLAT PROCESS:
   (A)   Application Requirements: After the approval or conditional approval
of the preliminary plat, the applicant may cause the total parcel, or any part
thereof, to be surveyed and a final plat prepared in accord with the approved
preliminary plat. An application and fees, in accord with Title XI, Chapter 18
"Administration," shall be submitted to the Administrator on forms provided by
the Administrator. Prior to or at the time of submitting the final plat
application, the applicant shall file with the City a 24 x 36 copy, in PDF
format, of the complete as-built construction drawings and final plat.
   (B)   Contents of final plat: The final plat shall include and be in
compliance with all items required under I.C. §§ 50-1301 et seq. The final plat
submittal shall include at least:
      1.   A written application for approval of such final plat as stipulated
by the Commission.
      2.   Proof of current ownership of the real property included in the
proposed final plat and consent of the recorded owners of the plat.
      3.   Such other information as the Administrator or City Engineer may
deem necessary to establish whether or not all proper parties have signed and/
or approved the final plat.
      4.   A statement of conformance with the approved preliminary plat and
meeting all requirements or conditions thereof.
      5.   A statement of conformance with all requirements and provisions of
this Title.
      6.   A statement of conformance with acceptable engineering,
architectural, and surveying practices and local standards.
   (C)   Administrator Review:
      1.   Acceptance: Upon receipt of the final plat, and compliance with all
other requirements as provided for herein, the Administrator shall certify the
application as complete and shall affix the date of acceptance.
      2.   Substantial compliance:
         (a)   The Administrator or designee shall review the final plat for
substantial compliance with the approved or conditionally approved preliminary
plat. The final plat shall be determined in substantial compliance with the
preliminary plat, notwithstanding the following changes:
            (1)   The number of buildable lots is the same or fewer;
            (2)   The amount of common open space is increased;
            (3)   The amount of open space is relocated with no reduction in
the total amount;
            (4)   The number of open space lots has been increased; or
            (5)   The transportation authority has required minor changes.
         (b)   If the number of buildable lots has increased or there has been
an overall reduction in the amount of open space, the final plat shall be
determined not to be in substantial compliance with the preliminary plat. If
the Administrator determines that there is substantial difference in the final
plat from that which was approved as a preliminary plat or conditions have not
been met, the Administrator may require that a new preliminary plat be
submitted to the Commission.
   (D)   Decision: Decision on the final plat is made by the Council in accord
with Title XI, Chapter 18 "Administration," New Plymouth City Code. Each final
plat approval shall indicate the timing of the construction and completion for
all improvements and any required amenities associated with the plat.
   (E)   City Engineer Approval: Prior to requesting the City Engineer's
signature on the final plat Mylar, the subdivider shall either:
      1.   Provide the necessary documentation to show that all required
improvements, infrastructure, public utilities, and public improvements have
been installed and conditions of approval have been met and inspected and
approved by the City, including all record drawing requirements, submittal of
engineer of record inspection logs, submittal of the engineer of record
certification and receipt of the dedication request, and memorandum from the
City Engineer has been issued stating such compliance; or
      2.   Provide the necessary documentation to show that the required
improvements and conditions that have not been completed have approved
financial guarantees, as provided for in this section and NPCC § 12-5-3.
      3.   The City Engineer shall not sign, nor release the final plat for
recording, until the City has received the financial guarantee as provided for
in NPCC § 12-5-3 in compliance with the provisions of this chapter and the
Council has approved the final plat.
   (F)   Improvements Ineligible for Financial Guarantees: The following items
are not eligible for financial guarantees as provided for in NPCC § 12-5-3 and
shall be completed by the subdivider and inspected and approved by the City
Engineer and/or their legal designee and other approving agencies prior to the
subdivider submitting for final plat approval:
      1.   Construction of the domestic water system, including successful
pressure testing. Bacteria tests and final City inspections and approvals may
be delayed until roadways are completed.
      2.   Installation of fire hydrants according to the current International
Fire Code standards and supporting fire flows according to standards
established by the Fire District.
      3.   Construction of the sanitary sewer system with evidence of
acceptable pipe sloping and completion of all work within the base of the
manholes. However, the pressure test and television camera inspection, followed
by an additional City inspections and approval must be completed prior to the
paving of the all-weather roadway.
      4.   Construction of pressurized irrigation to City standards, including
successful pressure testing, regardless of incorporation into the City's
pressurized irrigation system.
      5.   Construction of permanent roads shall be complete to the extent that
all road base is installed such that it provides a temporary all-weather road
service to all buildings to be constructed. These improvements shall be to City
Standards and Specifications and receive the Fire District's approval. If the
permanent roads are not improved to this level of completion, then construction
of temporary roads with an all-weather road surface shall be installed to
service all buildings, subject to approval from the Fire District.
      6.   For items 1 through 4 above, the City Engineer's approval shall be
in the form of a memorandum confirming the completion of the items.
      7.   The subdivider shall dedicate all sanitary sewer and domestic water
facilities and provide all applicable documentation as required by the City
Engineer.
   (G)   Public Improvements Eligible for Financial Guarantees: The following
items are eligible for financial guarantees as provided in NPCC § 12-5-3, as
approved by the City Engineer, City Attorney, and Administrator, and adopted by
the Council. The subdivider shall pay any additional fees associated with the
request for financial guarantees, as approved and adopted by the Council.
      1.   Completion of the construction of an all-weather road system built
to City Standards and Specifications, and subject to Fire District and
applicable highway district approvals. The City shall review the financial
guarantees provided for by and between the subdivider and the City, and the
City Attorney shall determine if the City's interests are adequately protected.
      2.   Installation of street signs followed by City Engineer, Fire
District and applicable highway district inspections and approvals.
      3.   Installation of required landscaping, amenities and open space
improvements.
      4.   Construction of that portion of the pressurized irrigation system
that will be dedicated to the City by the subdivider. Said system shall be
tested by the subdivider, and inspected and approved by the City.
      5.   Permanent approved perimeter fencing along the subdivision's outer
perimeter, which shall require a building permit.
      6.   The City Engineer shall monitor the construction of any improvements
or conditions that are being constructed pursuant to the financial guarantees
of NPCC § 12-5-3.
      7.   If the City Attorney determines that it is necessary, any
improvement or condition that is being constructed pursuant to the financial
guarantees of NPCC § 12-5-3 shall be recorded against the property in a
development agreement, as approved and adopted by the Council.
      8.   The subdivider may construct up to three (3) model homes if the
project size is up to fifty (50) acres, or up to five (5) model homes if the
project size is greater than fifty (50) acres. The subdivider shall be solely
responsible for locating the model home within any required City setbacks and
easements. As provided for in subsection 9 below, no certificate of occupancy
shall be issued on any of the model homes until all improvements and conditions
that are subject to financial guarantees are completed, inspected, and approved
by the appropriate agencies.
      9.   Other than the model homes constructed in subsection 8 above, no
other homes may be constructed, and no certificate of occupancy shall be issued
until all improvements and conditions that are subject to a financial guarantee
are completed, inspected, and approved by the appropriate agencies.
   (H)   Annexation into Municipal Irrigation System: Prior to the roads being
paved and the sidewalks being constructed, the City must receive documentation
requesting that the property be annexed into the New Plymouth Municipal
Irrigation System if annexation is applicable. All applicable fees must be
submitted with the annexation request.
   (I)   Recording of final plat: After the Council grants final plat approval
and subject to the prepayment of recording fees and the inclusion of the
following signatures on the final plat, the applicant shall submit the final
plat to the county recorder for recording:
      1.   Certification and signature of the Council verifying that the
subdivision has been approved;
      2.   Certification and signature of the City Clerk, if required, and the
City Engineer, verifying that the subdivision meets city requirements and has
been approved by the Council; and
      3.   Certification of the sanitation restrictions on the face of the plat
pursuant to I.C. § 50-1326.
(Ord. 115, 10-4-76, eff. 10-21-1976; amd. Ord. 435, 3-23-2026)
12-3-4: COMBINED PRELIMINARY PLAT AND FINAL PLAT PROCESS:
   (A)   Applicability: A subdivision application may be processed as both a
preliminary and final plat if all the following exist:
      1.   The proposed subdivision does not exceed four (4) lots; or a
previous plat was approved on the subject property; and
      2.   No new street dedication, excluding widening an existing street, is
required; and
      3.   No major special development considerations are involved, such as
development in a floodplain or hillside development.
   (B)   Application requirements: An application, and fees, shall be submitted
in accord with title 11, chapter 18 "Administration."
   (C)   Contents of final plat: The final plat shall include all items
required in accord with I.C. §§ 50-1301 et seq.
   (D)   Decision: In accord with Title 11, chapter 18 "Administration," a
decision on a combined preliminary and final plat for a parcel of land is made
by the Council based on the recommendations of the Commission. A decision on a
combined preliminary and final plat for platted land is made by the Council.
(Ord. 435, 3-23-2026)
12-3-5: LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of these regulations is to allow for the
adjustment of property lines between existing properties and to allow for the
reduction in the number of buildable lots. A lot line adjustment does not
vacate the platted lot lines or easements of a recorded subdivision.
   (B)   Applicability: The provisions of this section shall apply to all
existing properties located wholly within the City of New Plymouth. A record of
survey filed with Payette County by the affected property owners without
Administrator approval of that action shall not be recognized as a legal lot
division and shall cause the City to file a notice of noncompliance violation
with the county of that action as it relates to the affected properties.
   (C)   Application: Applications for lot line adjustments shall consist of
the following:
      1.   Applicant name, owner name, purchaser name, representative name,
together with phone numbers, email addresses and mailing addresses for all
affected parties. If the signature on the application is not the owner of the
property, a notarized statement (affidavit of legal interest) from the owner
stating the applicant is authorized to submit the application shall be
submitted with the application.
      2.   Proof of ownership.
      3.   Record of survey that includes the following:
         (a)   A heading and narrative stating the purpose of the survey.
         (b)   Subdivision, lots, and blocks affected.
         (c)   Existing lot and block numbers and new parcel numbers shown.
         (d)   Existing and new property lines shown and labeled.
         (e)   Square footage and acreage of the new parcels.
         (f)   Existing easements and any proposed new easements.
         (g)   Abutting road names and rights-of-way, including alleys.
         (h)   Existing buildings and new setbacks.
         (i)   A signature line for City Engineer certification.
         (j)   Signatures of all owners of record.
      4.   Legal descriptions for the new parcels.
      5.   Three (3) copies of the lot line adjustment plat on eleven inch by
seventeen inch (11" x 17") sheets drafted with black ink at a legible scale and
stamped by a licensed land surveyor.
      6.   Surveyor verification of closures on all new parcels prior to
application submission.
   (D)   Standards:
      1.   The lot line adjustment process may be used:
         (a)   Where parcels or lots are being combined;
         (b)   Where the adjustment of lot lines is requested, and no new
buildable lot will be created; or
         (c)   Where the reorientation of existing lots does not increase the
number of buildable lots; however, the action may allow a decrease in the
original number of lots.
      2.   The lot line adjustment procedure may not be used where it increases
or expands nonconformity with this Title or Title XI, New Plymouth City Code.
      3.   A lot line adjustment shall not change or move any platted
subdivision boundaries, public streets, or publicly dedicated areas in any
manner.
      4.   A lot line adjustment shall not alter a parcel's zoning, or modify
zoning district boundaries. Both parcels shall possess the same zoning district
classification. In the event both parcels do not possess the same zoning
district classification, a rezone application shall accompany the lot line
adjustment application.
   (E)   Installation of utilities: In the event utilities have been installed,
lot line adjustments shall not be allowed unless written approval is obtained
from all affected utilities.
   (F)   Utility easements: If utilities are not in place, the property owner
shall provide adequate utility easements before a lot line adjustment will be
granted. (Ord. 435, 3-23-2026)
12-3-6: REQUIRED FINDINGS:
In determining the acceptance of a proposed preliminary plat or combined
preliminary and final plat, the Commission and Council shall make the following
findings:
   (A)   The plat is in conformance with the comprehensive plan and is
consistent with Title XI and this Title;
   (B)   Public services are available or can be made available and are
adequate to accommodate the proposed development;
   (C)   The plat is in conformance with scheduled public improvements in
accord with the city's capital improvement program;
   (D)   There is public capability to provide supporting services to the
proposed development; and
   (E)   The development preserves significant natural, scenic, or historic
features. (Ord. 435, 3-23-2026)
12-3-7: DEDICATION:
Within a proposed subdivision, arterial and collector streets, as shown on the
comprehensive plan, shall be dedicated to the public in all cases. In general,
all other streets shall also be dedicated to public use. At the time of
approval of the final plat, the Council shall accept offers of dedication to
the public shown thereon and shall as a condition precedent to the acceptance
of any streets or easements require that the subdivider at its option either
improve or agree to improve the streets and easements in accordance with
standards established under this Title. (Ord. 435, 3-23-2026)
***** CHAPTER 4
DESIGN STANDARDS *****
SECTION:
12-4-1: Minimum Design Standards
12-4-2: Block Requirements
12-4-3: Lot Requirements
12-4-4: Streets and Alleys
12-4-5: Easements
12-4-1: MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS:
In order that the subdivision of land within the jurisdiction of the City will
contribute to the development of safe, convenient and attractive residential,
commercial and other areas and advance the public welfare, the Commission and
Council in reviewing and acting upon any subdivision plat shall insure that
full consideration and weight is given to the following:
   (A)   The intent and design of the proposed plat shall be in accord with the
provisions of the Comprehensive General Plan.
   (B)   Street patterns in residential neighborhoods shall be designed to
create areas free of through traffic but readily accessible to adjacent
arterial streets.
   (C)   In the subdivision of land along arterial and collector streets, the
block length shall be increased so as to limit driveway or other vehicular
access as much as possible compatible with good design and a reasonable use of
land.
   (D)   Street intersections in residential areas may be of a "T" rather than
a "+" design wherever such design will not unduly restrict a free movement of
traffic.
   (E)   All natural drainage courses shall be left undisturbed or be improved
in a manner which will improve the hydraulics and ease of maintenance of the
channel.
   (F)   Reserve strips shall conform to the following:
      1.   Private reserve strips: Privately held reserve strips controlling
access to streets shall be prohibited.
      2.   Public reserve strips: A one-foot (1') reserve strip may be required
to be placed along half streets which are within the subdivision boundaries and
shall be dedicated to the City for future street widening.
(Ord. 115, 10-4-76, eff. 10-21-1976; amd. Ord. 435, 3-23-2026)
12-4-2: BLOCK REQUIREMENTS:
No block shall be longer than six hundred sixty feet (660') nor less than two
hundred fifty feet (250') between street intersections and shall have
sufficient width to provide for two (2) tiers of lots except as provided in
Section
12-4-3 or by a special exception approved by the Council. (Ord. 115, 10-4-76,
eff. 10-21-1976)
12-4-3: LOT REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Lot Area and Dimensions: Lot area, dimensions and minimum street
frontage shall be as established by the City Zoning Ordinance 1 .
   (B)   Corner Lots: For corner lots a property return with a radius of not
less than ten feet (10') shall be provided; however, a larger radius may be
required, when in the opinion of the Council, such is necessary to serve an
existing or future need.
   (C)   Butt or Key Lots: Butt or key lots shall be avoided whenever possible.
   (D)   Side Lot Lines: Side lot lines shall be at approximate right angles or
radial to the street line unless a variation from the rule will provide a more
desirable street and lot plan.
   (E)   Double Frontage Lots: Double frontage lots are prohibited except that
where a showing is made that unusual topography or other conditions make it
impossible to meet this requirement an exception may be approved by the
Council. (Ord. 115, 10-4-1976, eff. 10-21-1976; amd. Ord. 435, 3-23-2026)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title XI of this Code.
12-4-4: STREETS AND ALLEYS:
   (A)   Streets:
      1.   The arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location of all
streets shall conform to the Comprehensive General Plan and shall be considered
in their relation to existing and planned streets topographic conditions, to
public convenience and safety and in their appropriate relation to the proposed
uses of the land served.
      2.   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed
arterial street, the Council may require frontage streets, reverse frontage
streets or similar treatment for the purpose of creating desirable neighborhood
character and enhancing the movement of traffic.
      3.   The Council may require a street along a railroad right of way
suitable for the appropriate use of the intervening land.
      4.   There shall be provided rights of way of such width in no case to be
less than those defined in the Comprehensive Plan for the City; provided,
however, that the width of said rights of way shall in no case be less than the
following:
 
Regional arterial route 90 ft. and up
Arterial street         66 ft. to 90 ft.
Collector street        60 ft. minimum
Residential street      60 ft.
 
      5.   Street grades shall be such as to provide for the safe movement of
traffic in all weather and for adequate drainage of both streets and abutting
properties. Street grades, whenever feasible, shall be not less than three-
tenths percent (0.3%) and not more than fifteen percent (15%).
      6.   In general partial street dedications shall not be permitted;
provided, however, that the Council may accept a partial street dedication when
such street forms the boundary of the property being subdivided and, in
addition, is shown on the Comprehensive General Plan or is designated by the
Council as an arterial or collector street or is otherwise officially
designated as of major importance as a present or future trafficway, or such
other conditions or restrictions exist or are imposed by the Council so that
the eventual completion of such street to its full required right of way is
assured; and further provided that when a dedicated partial street exists
adjacent to the property to be subdivided, the other portion may be platted
within such subdivision.
      7.   A cul-de-sac, court or similar type street may be permitted provided
that tile maximum length for a cul-de-sac shall be four hundred feet (400') as
measured from entrance to center of a turnaround and, all cul-de-sacs shall be
provided with a turnaround having a minimum radius of fifty feet (50') at the
property line, and not less than forty feet (40') at the curb lines.
      8.   Dead end streets shall not be permitted, with the exception that
such streets terminating at the boundary of a subdivision may be approved when
such a street and its extension is shown on the Comprehensive General Plan or
when in the opinion of the Council, the future extension of such a street is
feasible and necessary to the proper development of the City street pattern. A
temporary cul-de-sac shall be constructed at the end of a dead end street.
      9.   The maximum length of a loop street shall be one thousand feet
(1,000') and a loop street over this length though otherwise meeting the
definition of a "loop street", shall be required to conform to the standards of
a minor street in its subdivision type; provided, however, that a loop street
of up to one thousand two hundred feet (1,200') in length containing frontage
of no more than twenty four (24) building lots may be permitted.
      10.   Streets shall be designed and laid out in order to intersect as
nearly as possible at right angles and no street shall intersect any other
street at less than seventy degrees (70°).
      11.   Where any street deflects an angle of ten degrees (10°) or more, a
connecting curve having a minimum radius of three hundred feet (300') for
arterial and collector streets and one hundred fifty feet (150') for minor
streets may be required by the Commission.
      12.   Proposed streets which are a continuation of an existing street
shall be given the same name as the existing street, all other street names
used shall not duplicate or be of a spelling or pronunciation of existing
streets within the City or within the adjacent County area. The subdivider
shall obtain all street names within the proposed subdivision from the City
Zoning and Planning Commission before submitting same to the Council for final
approval.
      13.   Street trees where provided shall be of the variety, size and
location approved by the City Council.
   (B)   Alleys:
      1.   Alleys may be required at the rear of all business lots and shall be
at least twenty feet (20') in width. Alleys, when provided in residential
blocks, shall be not less than sixteen feet (16') in width.
      2.   At the intersection of two (2) alleys, the corners of the abutting
property shall be provided with a property line return having a radius of not
less than twenty feet (20').
      3.   Except under unusual circumstances alleys shall not terminate in a
dead end and in no case shall a dead end alley be accepted unless turnaround
facilities are provided to the satisfaction of the Council. (Ord. 115, 10-4-
1976, eff. 10-21-1976)
12-4-5: EASEMENTS:
   (A)   Public utilities easements: A public utilities easement, including but
not limited to City utilities, irrigation, and drainage easements, shall be
provided along front lot lines, rear lot lines and side lot lines when deemed
necessary by the City Engineer or designee. All such easements shall be shown
and dedicated as such on the final plat.
   (B)   Easement width: Total easement width shall not be less than ten feet
(10'), unless specifically approved by Council at the time of final plat
approval or as approved through an easement vacation application.
   (C)   Obstructions placed in easements:
      1.   If any encroachment is constructed within the easement, including
but not limited to, landscaping (trees, grass, and plants), deck, fence, gate,
air conditioner, shed, swimming pool, water feature, or concrete pad, and it is
necessary for the City to access the easement for maintenance or repair, the
encroachment shall be removed, replaced, and/or hauled off at the owner's
expense.
      2.   The City shall give the owner of the property where the encroachment
is located forty-eight (48) hours' notice to remove the encroachment, unless an
emergency exists as determined by the City. If the owner fails to remove the
encroachment, the City may cause the same to be removed and charge the owner
for the costs of the removal.
   (D)   Existing easements: All existing recorded easements, with width, use,
dimensions and bearings, shall be shown on final plats along with the
applicable instrument numbers. All proposed easements, with width, use,
dimensions and bearings, shall be shown on final plats.
(Ord. 115, 10-4-1976, eff. 10-21-1976; amd. Ord. 435, 3-23-2026)
***** CHAPTER 5
IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS *****
SECTION:
12-5-1: Subdivider’s Responsibility
12-5-2: Construction And Inspection
12-5-3: Required Public Improvements
12-5-4: Financial Guarantee Relating To Completion Of Subdivision Improvements
12-5-1: SUBDIVIDER'S RESPONSIBILITY:
   (A)   Compliance: The subdivider, at his or her expense, has the
responsibility of designing, constructing and having inspected and approved all
required improvements to City specifications and standards, as well as the
specifications and standards of other public agencies having jurisdiction.
   (B)   Responsibility for plans: It shall be the responsibility of the
subdivider of every proposed subdivision to have prepared by a registered
engineer a complete set of construction plans, including profiles, cross-
sections, specifications and other supporting data, for all required public
streets, utilities, and other facilities.
   (C)   Maintenance during construction: The subdivider has the responsibility
of maintaining the subdivision property in a nuisance-free manner until such
time that the subdivision is turned over to a homeowners' or business owners'
association. Maintenance shall include the mowing of all weeds (said mowing to
take place at least monthly within the months of April, May, June, July,
August, September and October) within the subdivision boundaries and the
immediate removal of noxious weeds when they are identified, as well as the
immediate removal of all loose, dead, and/or dying plant material which would
include the mowed weed material. All appropriate dust abatement procedures
shall be applied as necessary for dust mitigation during the entire development
and construction process until build out is complete, including watering of
unpaved surfaces in regular use and the application of dust inhibitors.
   (D)   Rules and regulations: At the time of development, a "rules and
regulations" sign shall be posted and maintained at the entryways to the
project until it is fully developed and build out is complete. The signs would
be intended for subcontractors performing would and should include the
following:
      1.   No dogs;
      2.   No loud music;
      3.   No alcohol or drugs;
      4.    No abusive language;
      5.   Required disposal of personal trash and site debris;
      6.   Daily cleanup of any mud and/or dirt that is deposited from the
construction parcel onto streets;
      7.   Installation of a temporary construction fence that would keep
debris from being flown off site by the wind; and
      8.   No burning of construction or other debris on the property.
   (E)   Mailbox placement: The subdivider shall coordinate with the U.S.
Postal Service to determine the best location for mailbox placement prior to
preliminary plat approval. Mailbox placement shall not be within any vision
triangle area.
   (F)   School bus stops: In subdivisions containing residential uses, the
subdivider shall coordinate with the local school district or school bus
company to determine a detailed school bus stop plan and layout. A letter shall
be provided to the Administrator from the local school district or school bus
company, prior to preliminary plat approval, indicating said school district's
or bus company's approval of said detailed school bus stop plan and layout.
(Ord. 435, 3-23-2026)
12-5-2: CONSTRUCTION AND INSPECTION:
   (A)   Preconstruction meeting: Prior to commencement of construction of any
required improvements, construction in any dedicated right-of-way or future
right-of-way area or construction of any improvement intended for dedication to
the City or connection to a City facility, a preconstruction meeting shall be
scheduled by the engineer of record. Said preconstruction meeting shall take
place at City Hall with the City Engineer, Public Works Director and other
applicable City personnel present.
   (B)   Notice of testing: The City Engineer and Public Works Director shall
be notified a minimum of two (2) business days in advance of all testing
including but not limited to, compaction, pressure, and coliform testing.
      1.   Applicable City personnel must be present at all testing or the
results will be null and void, unless applicable City personnel authorize
testing to proceed without City observation. The City shall be duly notified by
the engineer of records or his/her authorized representative a minimum of two
(2) business days prior to the testing.
      2.   The engineer of record or his/her designated representative must be
present at all testing or the results will be null and void.
      3.   A log of all inspection visits and testing results shall be kept by
the engineer of record or his/her representative and a copy of said log and
testing results shall be submitted to the City Engineer upon completion of
improvements.
   (C)   Public works contractor: Construction of facilities to be dedicated
and/or within the public right-of-way or future public right-of-way area shall
be performed by an appropriately licensed public works contractor and
constructed to City specifications and standards.
   (D)   Engineer to oversee construction and inspection: The subdivider shall
employ a responsible design professional, preferably the engineer of record, to
oversee and inspect construction, to perform and/or observe all requisite
testing of completed facilities, and to acknowledge in writing, that to the
best of his/her knowledge, improvements have been constructed in compliance
with approved plans and City Standard Specifications.
   (E)   Dedication of public facilities: All public streets, public sewer
lines, public water lines and water services up to and through the water meter
and including the water meter, fire hydrants, and streetlight facilities shall
be dedicated to the City.
   (F)   Stormwater systems: Conveyance facilities for stormwater drainage
within the public right-of-way may be eligible for dedication to the City on a
case-by-case basis as approved by the City Engineer.
   (G)   Construction staking: All construction staking shall be performed by
or under the direct supervision of a professional land surveyor or professional
engineer and shall be so noted on the construction plans.
   (H)   Substantial compliance: The engineer of record shall be held
responsible to ensure that required development improvements are in substantial
compliance with said engineer's design. (Ord. 435, 3-23-2026)
12-5-3: REQUIRED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
All requirements of this section must be adhered to unless an exception to such
standards and requirements has been granted by the Council. Any such exceptions
shall be made on a case-by-case basis only, shall not be considered precedent
setting, and shall be dependent upon one or any combination of the following
factors: topography; geography; limited size of the subject property; existing
site or surrounding conditions that prohibit adherence to the requirement;
whether or not the project is an infill project; and/or, whether or not the
project is a redevelopment project. In no case shall an exception be granted
if, in the opinion of the Council, said exception presents a detriment to the
public's health, safety and/or general welfare, and/or is not in the best
interests of the City. In no case shall an exception be granted if any portion
of the request for the exception is based upon financial conditions or
situations. All requested exceptions must be specifically requested and
detailed in the initial preliminary plat application and shall be considered
for a recommendation by the Commission and a final decision by the Council.
   (A)   Street and Alley Improvements:
      1.   Street Type: Street type, whether arterial, collector or minor,
shall be determined by reference to the Comprehensive Plan of the City and to a
map of the entire area the street serves. When classification of minor street,
cul-de-sac or loop street is claimed the entire length of the street shall be
shown on the subdivision plat being proposed or on a previously approved plat.
      2.   Pavement Width: The pavement width of all streets shall conform to
those widths defined in the Comprehensive Plan, or City Standard
Specifications.
      3.   Paving Design: The paving design of the intersection of any new
street with an existing State or Federal highway shall be in accordance with
the standard specifications of the Idaho Transportation Department, but in no
case shall the design be less than the applicable specifications contained
herein.
      4.   Construction: Pavement, base and leveling coarse gravel shall be
constructed in accordance with City Standard Specifications.
      5.   Center Lines: In general, the center line of street pavement shall
coincide with the center line of the right of way in which the pavement is
located.
      6.   Concrete Curbs and Gutters: All subdivisions shall be constructed
with curbs and gutters in accordance with the City Standard Specifications.
      7.   Sidewalks: Sidewalks five feet (5') in width shall be provided on
both sides of any residential collector and other minor residential street,
unless otherwise approved by the City. Sidewalks shall also be provided along
any other street in a subdivision where deemed by the Council to be essential
to public convenience or safety, in accordance with City Standard
Specifications.
      8.   Driveways: Driveway curb cuts and driveway approaches shall be made
in accordance with the City Standard Specifications.
      9.   Street Lighting: Streetlights shall be required to be installed by
the subdivider/developer at intersections, cul-de-sacs, at approximately every
four hundred feet (400'), and where the City deems necessary throughout the
subdivision/development. All costs to install streetlights and poles shall be
borne by the developer.
      10.   Alleys: Alleys shall be constructed in accordance with the City
Standard Specifications.
      11.   Utilities: All utilities shall be placed underground, before any
base street material is laid.
   (B)   Water: Connection to the City water system is required in accord with
the following:
      1.   Central water lines and fire hydrants shall be provided in all
subdivisions in accordance with City Standard Specifications. Each individual
buildable lot shall have an individual water service capable of supplying each
buildable lot with safe, pure and potable water in sufficient volume flow and
pressure for domestic use and fire protection in accordance with City Code,
Idaho Department of Environmental Quality requirements, and the International
Fire Code. Redundant water supply is required.
      2.   Irrigation main lines and distribution lines shall be provided in
accordance with City Standard Specifications.
   (C)   Sanitary Sewers:
      1.   Sanitary sewers shall be provided in all subdivisions and connection
to the City sewer system is required. The extension and relocation of sanitary
sewer provided by the City shall be at the subdivider's expense.
      2.   An individual sewage disposal service shall be installed for each
individual lot.
      3.   All sanitary sewage disposal facilities shall be designed subject to
City Code, standards, specifications and approvals, and shall comply with all
applicable sewer master studies, including updates.
      4.   In accord with I.C. § 50-1326, no building or structure shall be
constructed until sanitary restrictions have been removed.
      5.   The subdivider shall bring sanitary sewer to and through the
proposed subdivision to facilitate connection to the surrounding users.
      6.   In any subdivision served by central water wherein the Council has
approved an exception to the requirement to install sanitary sewer facilities
as provided for herein, such subdivision shall provide an alternate provision
for sewage disposal in accordance with the requirements of the Idaho Department
of Health and Welfare, the County Health Department and to the satisfaction of
the Council.
      7.   In considering such alternative provisions the Council may require
an increase in minimum lot size and may impose any other requirements which it
deems necessary to protect the public health, safety or welfare.
   (D)   Stormwater Drainage:
      1.   Improvement plans providing for the drainage of stormwater shall
include:
         (a)   A drainage plan relating the draining of the proposed
subdivision to the drainage area of which it is a part;
         (b)   A calculation of the runoff for a maximum on hour rain occurring
in a fifty (50) year period for the water courses lying within or running
through the subdivision as set forth in the City Standard Specifications; and
         (c)   A demonstration of the method for disposing of runoff from the
subdivision including the size, location and dedication of drainage easements.
      2.   Drainage structures, channel improvements and storm sewers shall be
constructed in accordance with the City Standard Specifications.
   (E)   Stream Easements and Irrigation:
      1.   The reservation of an easement along any stream or important surface
drainage course located in an area being subdivided may be required by the
Council for the purpose of widening, deepening, sloping, improving or
protecting the stream or drainage course.
      2.   No ditch, pipe or structure for irrigation water or irrigation waste
water shall be constructed, rerouted or changed in any way unless such
obstruction, rerouting or change has first been approved, in writing by the
ditch company officer in charge; provided, however, that where such ditch, pipe
or structure is held in mutual ownership said approval in writing shall be
obtained from the City Engineer. A copy of such written approval by the ditch
company officer and/or the City Engineer, shall be filed with the construction
drawings as provided.
      3.   The developer, subdivider, and/or property owner shall maintain any
existing upstream drainage rights and downstream irrigation rights across the
subject property. The developer, subdivider, property owner and/or engineer of
record shall contact the appropriate irrigation district to help ascertain
these rights. Appropriate facilities shall be provided by the developer,
subdivider, and/or property owner to convey irrigation and drainage water
across the subject property to take care of these off-site needs. There shall
be no discharge of gravity irrigation return water into the subdivision
stormwater system.
      4.   The supplying irrigation district shall approve the location of the
point of delivery.
      5.   Existing irrigation facilities shall be located outside the public
right-of-way and shall be moved, adjusted and/or improved as necessary to
facilitate required street improvements.
   (F)   Parks and Open Space:
      1.   All landscape, open space and park areas shall be serviced by
pressurized irrigation. The subdivider shall add provisions to the
subdivision's CC&Rs identifying who will be responsible for the care and
maintenance of the landscape, open space and private park areas.
      2.   Single-family residential developments that include more than
seventy-five (75) dwelling units, and multi-family subdivisions containing more
than seventy-five (75) dwelling units shall provide one or more amenities in
the form of a park with play equipment, picnic area with tables and shade
structure, one or more sport courts, community center/clubhouse, swimming pool,
recreational pond/lake, or other similar amenity.
   (G)   Monuments: Monuments shall be set in accordance with I.C. § 50-1303.
Monuments disturbed or destroyed during construction shall be reset.
(Ord. 115, 10-4-1976, eff. 10-21-1976; amd. Ord. 435, 3-17-2026)
12-5-4: FINANCIAL GUARANTEE RELATING TO COMPLETION OF SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS:
   (A)   Financial Guarantee Arrangements: The actual installation of all
required subdivision public improvements must be either physically completed or
financially guaranteed for physical completion by the subdivider prior to
signage of the final plat and noting that certain improvements, as identified
in NPCC § 12-3-3 are not eligible for financial guarantee, rather they must be
installed prior to the subdivision or its phase's final plat approval.
   (B)   Form of Financial Guarantee:
      1.   Cash deposit, intended to be held by the City, pending final
completion of the improvements;
      2.   Cash-back, irrevocable standby letter of credit, drawn from a FDIC
or FSLIC insured financial institution with a local branch or other financial
institutions, subject to Council approval, that remains irrevocable until final
completion of all noted financially pledged improvements; or
      3.   Alternate forms of financial guarantee may be acceptable at the sole
discretion of the City upon a finding by the City Treasurer, City Attorney and
City Engineer that the offered alternate form of financial guarantee is
satisfactory.
   (C)   Conditions of Financial Guarantee:
      1.   A financial guarantee shall be established in such a manner as to
provide the City the opportunity to draw upon it within thirty (30) days
preceding expiration or earlier if the subdivider or its successor has ceased
to pursue completion of improvements and the public health, safety or general
welfare is jeopardized by the delay in completing the improvements.
      2.   The City shall not release the financial guarantee until all
improvements (including required dedications) have been completed by the
subdivider and accepted by the City Engineer, Public Works Director and other
public agencies responsible for the subdivision or its phase's acceptance and
maintenance.
      3.   Cash the City holds as a financial guarantee will be held in the
City's primary interest-bearing account and the subdivider will be entitled to
the interest accrued at the interest-bearing rate once the improvements have
been completed satisfactorily.
   (D)   Method of Financial Guarantee: Financial guarantees shall be submitted
to and accepted by the City Engineer prior to any City signatures on the final
plat according to the following protocol:
      1.   The initial financial guarantee shall be an amount equal to one
hundred twenty-five percent (125%) of the City Engineer's estimate of cost on
all the remaining subdivision work to be completed, including additional cost
factors such as inflation, City bidding disadvantage and City project
management.
      2.   The City Engineer's estimated cost of the remaining work shall be
determined, in part, from the detailed bids provided by the subdivider's
contractors on contractor's letterhead. To the initial one hundred twenty-five
percent (125%) estimated cost may be added sums for the following
considerations:
         (a)   Three to ten percent (3% - 10%) for inflation;
         (b)   Ten to fifteen percent (10% - 15%) for the City's bidding
disadvantage; and
         (c)   Twelve to twenty percent (12% - 20%) for City project
management, as determined by the City Engineer.
      3.   The scope of the remaining work shall be determined by the City
Engineer, in cooperation with the Administrator. Such work shall be described
in the form of a punch list, which shall be compiled and updated following on-
site inspection(s).
      4.   For the duration of the financial guarantee, no more than fifty
percent (50%) of the total building permits available for the subdivision or
its phases shall be issued by the City until the work to be covered by the
financial pledge is completed, inspected and approved by the City Engineer or
designee.
      5.   If construction of all financially pledged improvements is not
completed within one hundred twenty (120) days following the date of
recordation of the final plat, no further building permits shall be issued by
the City until final completion of all improvements has occurred, and the City
has inspected and approved them. However, if the remaining improvements are not
completed within the one hundred twenty (120) day period, through no fault of
the subdivider, the City Engineer may grant a one-time, one hundred twenty
(120) day time extension. The determination of what may be considered a no-
fault circumstance shall be determined by the City Engineer and includes, but
is not limited to, circumstances involving acts of God, natural disaster, or
public health emergency.
   (E)   Time Periods and Extensions:
      1.   The financial guarantee shall be limited to a period not to exceed
one (1) year. If construction of improvements has not been completed within
that time period, the City Engineer may allow a one-time, one-year time
extension, provided that action is accompanied by the financial guarantee
remaining intact during that time extension period, which may require the
reissuing of the financial guarantee.
      2.   The renewal amount for the time extension period shall be set in
accord with NPCC § 12-5-3(D) for the remaining work.
      3.   If the financial guarantee is drawn upon by the City, the City
Engineer shall inform the Council of this fact, together with providing a
recommendation to Council on how to proceed with completing the required
subdivision improvements.
      4.   The Council may, upon request of the subdivider, approve a second
one-year time extension. The Council's renewal amount shall be set in accord
with NPCC § 12-5-3(D) for the remaining work. (Ord. 435, 3-17-2026)
***** CHAPTER 6
VARIANCES AND APPEALS *****
SECTION:
12-6-1: Variances and Appeals
12-6-1: VARIANCES AND APPEALS:
   (A)   Whenever a tract to be subdivided is of such unusual size or shape or
is surrounded by such developments or unusual conditions that the strict
application of these regulations would result in substantial hardship or
inequity, the Council may vary or modify such requirements so that the
subdivider may develop his property in a reasonable manner but so, at the same
time, the public welfare and interests of the City are protected, the general
intent and spirit of these regulations is preserved, and conformity to
achievement of the Comprehensive General Plan is assured.
      1.   In requesting any such modification or variance, a subdivider or his
engineer shall make written request to the City Engineer.
      2.   Such request, together with such related data and maps as necessary
to fully illustrate the relief sought, shall be referred by the City Engineer
in writing to the Zoning and Planning Commission.
      3.   The Zoning and Planning Commission shall act upon such request and
make recommendation to the City Council at its next regular meeting or within
thirty (30) days. If no recommendation is made within such time, the approval
of the request shall be considered to be recommended.
      4.   The Council, after receiving the recommendations of the Zoning and
Planning Commission, shall act upon such request at its next regular meeting.
      5.   Approval of such modifications shall require a majority vote of the
regular membership of the Council.
   (B)   In granting variances and/or modification from these regulations, the
Council may require such conditions as will, in its judgment, secure
substantially the objective of the standards or requirement so varied or
modified.
   (C)   Any person may appeal the decision of the Council to the District
Court in the same manner and within the same time as other appeals may be taken
from orders of the Council. (Ord. 115, 10-4-76, eff. 10-21-76)
***** CHAPTER 7
AMENDMENTS *****
SECTION:
12-7-1: Amendment Procedures
12-7-1: AMENDMENT PROCEDURES:
The Commission may recommend amendments to this Title and the Council, in
acting on such recommendation or on its own motion, may amend this Title from
time to time; provided, however, that the procedure followed in such
modifications shall be the same as in the original adoption of this Title.
(Ord. 115, 10-4-76, eff. 10-21-76)
TITLE XIII DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEES
***** CHAPTER 1
TITLE, AUTHORITY, APPLICABILITY, FINDINGS AND PURPOSE *****
SECTION:
13-1-1: Short Title
13-1-2: Authority
13-1-3: Applicability
13-1-4: Findings
13-1-5: Purpose
13-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited as the City of New Plymouth
Development Impact Fee Ordinance. (Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
13-1-2: AUTHORITY:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the City of New Plymouth's (the "City")
general police powers, its authority to enact ordinances, and its authority as
provided by the Idaho Development Impact Fee Act codified at Chapter 82 of
Title 67, Idaho Code (the "Act") and other applicable laws of the state of
Idaho to impose, collect development impact fees pursuant to its authority to
enter into an intergovernmental agreement as provided for in I.C. § 67-8204A.
(Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
13-1-3: APPLICABILITY:
Except as otherwise exempted in section
13-7-1, these provisions shall apply to the development of property located
within the boundaries of the City of New Plymouth, Idaho. (Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
13-1-4: FINDINGS:
   (A)   The City is experiencing considerable growth and development; and
   (B)   New Plymouth Fire Protection District ("the Fire District") is a
taxing district organized and existing by virtue of Chapter 14 of Title 31,
Idaho Code, and the Fire District's boundaries include all areas within the
City limits of the City and areas surrounding the City; and
   (C)   The Fire District's duty and responsibility is to provide protection
of property against fire and the preservation of life, and enforcement of any
of the fire codes and other rules that are adopted by the state fire marshal;
and provide for the protection and preservation of life; and
   (D)   The purposes of the Act (I.C. § 67-8202) are as follows:
      1.   Ensure that adequate Public Facilities are available to serve new
growth and development;
      2.   Promote orderly growth and development by establishing uniform
standards by which local governments, such as the City and the Fire District,
may require those who benefit from new growth and development pay [development
impact fees] their Proportionate Share of the costs of new Public Facilities
needed to serve that new growth and development; and
      3.   Establish minimum standards for adoption of development impact fee
ordinances by cities; and
      4.   Ensure that those who benefit from new growth and development are
required to pay no more than their Proportionate Share of the cost of Public
Facilities needed to serve that new growth and development and to prevent
duplicate and ad hoc Development Requirements; and
      5.   To empower cities to adopt ordinances to impose development impact
fees.
   (E)   The Act does not authorize the Fire District to enact a development
impact fee ordinance; and
   (F)   The Act does provide, pursuant to I.C. § 67-8204A, in circumstances
where the City and a fire district are both affected by the considerable growth
and Development as is occurring within the City, that the City and the Fire
District may enter into an intergovernmental agreement for the purpose of
agreeing to collect and expend development impact fees for System Improvements
which provides for a new funding mechanism for those System Improvements Costs
incurred by the Fire District to meet the demand and growth occurring within
the City and which promotes and accommodates orderly growih and Development and
protects the public health, safety and general welfare of the residences within
the boundaries of the City.
   (G)   New growth within the City imposes and will impose increasing and
excessive demands upon the Fire District's existing capital facilities.
   (H)   New growth within the City is expected to continue, and will place
ever-increasing demands on the Fire District to provide and expand its capital
facilities to serve that new growth.
   (I)   The tax revenues generated from new Development within the City often
do not generate sufficient funds to provide the necessary improvements and
expansion of existing Fire District Capital Facilities to accommodate for that
new growth.
   (J)   Section 67-8204A of the Act authorizes the City to adopt an impact fee
system and to enter into the intergovernmental agreements with the Fire
District to offset, recoup, or reimburse the portion of the costs of needed
improvements to its capital facilities caused by new growth and Development in
the City.
   (K)   The creation of an equitable impact fee system facilitated by the
Intergovernmental Agreement with the Fire District, will promote the purposes
set forth in the Act, in that it would:
      1.   Ensure that the Fire District has adequate capital facilities which
are available to serve new growth and Development;
      2.   Promote orderly growth and Development by establishing uniform
standards by which the City may require that those who benefit from new growth
and Development pay a Proportionate Share of the cost of the Fire District's
capital facilities needed to serve new growth and Development in the City;
      3.   Establish minimum standards for the adoption of Fire District impact
fees;
      4.   Ensure that those who benefit from new growth and Development are
required to pay no more than their Proportionate Share of the cost of the Fire
District's capital facilities needed to serve new growth and Development in the
City; and
      5.   Prevent duplicate and ad hoc Development Requirements in the City.
   (L)   The Capital Improvements Plan contains the Capital Improvements
planned by the Fire District during the term of its Capital Improvements Plan,
and such element has been developed in conformance with the requirements
Chapter 82 of Title 67, Idaho Code.
   (M)   The Capital Improvements Plan sets forth reasonable methodologies and
analyses for determining the impacts of various types of new Development on the
Fire District's capital facilities, and determines the cost of acquiring or
constructing the improvements necessary to meet the demands for such facilities
created by new Development.
   (N)   In accordance with Idaho Code, the Capital Improvements Plan was based
on actual System Improvements Costs or reasonable estimates of such costs. In
addition, the Capital Improvements Plan uses a fee calculation methodology that
is net of credits for the Present Value of revenues that will be generated by
new growth and Development based on historical funding patterns and that are
anticipated to be available to pay for System Improvements, including taxes,
assessments, user fees, and intergovernmental transfers.
   (O)   The Fire District impact fees established by this title are based on
the Fire District's Capital Improvements Plan, and do not exceed System
Improvements Costs to serve new Development that will pay the Fire District
impact fees.
   (P)   The Fire District's capital facilities, include in the calculation of
the fees in its Capital Improvements Plans, will benefit all new residential
Development throughout the City, and it is therefore appropriate to treat all
areas of the City as a single Service Area for purposes of calculating,
collecting, and spending the Fire District's impact fees collected from
Developers.
   (Q)   There is both a rational nexus and a rough proportionality between
Development impacts created by each type of Development covered by this title,
the development impact fees assessment of such Development covered by this
title, and the development impact fees that such Developer will be required to
pay.
   (R)   This title creates a system by which development impact fees paid by
Developers will be used to finance, defray, or reimburse a portion of the costs
incurred by the Fire District to construct and/or purchase System Improvements
in ways that benefit the Development for which the development impact fee was
paid within a reasonable period of time after the development impact fee is
paid, and in conformance with I.C. § 67-8210.
   (S)   This title creates a system under which development impact fees shall
not be used to correct existing deficiencies for any Fire District Capital
Facilities, or to replace or rehabilitate existing Fire District Capital
Facilities, or to pay for routine operation or maintenance of those facilities.
   (T)   This title creates a system under which there shall be no double
payment of development impact fees, in accordance with I.C. § 67-8204(19).
   (U)   This title is consistent with all applicable provisions of the Act
concerning development impact fee ordinances. (Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
13-1-5: PURPOSE:
   (A)   This title is adopted to be consistent with, and to help implement the
Capital Improvements Plan.
   (B)   The intent of this title is to ensure that new Development bears a
Proportionate Share of the cost of System Improvements; to ensure that such
Proportionate Share does not exceed the cost of such System Improvements
required to accommodate new Development; and to ensure that funds collected
from new Development are used for System Improvements in accordance with the
Act.
   (C)   It is the further intent of this title to be consistent with those
principles for allocating a fair share of the cost of System Improvements to
new Development, and for adopting development impact fee ordinances,
established by the Act.
   (D)   It is not the intent of this title to collect any money from any new
Development more than the actual amount necessary to offset new demands for
System Improvements created by such new Development.
   (E)   It is the intent of this title that any monies collected, as imposed
Impact Fees, are deposited in the appropriate Impact Fees Capital Projects
Trust Fund account, are never commingled with monies from a different impact
fee account, are never used for a development impact fee component different
from that for which the fee was paid, are never used to correct current
deficiencies in any district's, with which the City has entered into an
Intergovernmental Agreement pursuant to I.C. § 67-8204A, Capital Facilities,
and are never used to replace, rehabilitate, maintain or operate any Capital
Facilities. (Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
***** CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS *****
SECTION:
13-2-1: Definitions
13-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title, the following words and terms shall have the following
meanings, unless another meaning is plainly intended and words and terms
appearing in the singular number includes the plural and the plural the
singular:
ACCOUNTS: Any of one or more interest bearing accounts within the District
Development Impact Fee Capital Projects Trust Fund established in § 10-11-1 of
this title.
ACT: The Idaho Development Impact Fee Act as set forth in Chapter 82 of Title
67, Idaho Code.
ADVISORY COMMITTEE: A Fire District advisory committee established and
identified in the Intergovernmental Agreement which is formed and staffed
pursuant to I.C. § 67-8205 to prepare and recommend the Capital Improvements
Plan and any amendments, revisions, or updates of the same.
APPROPRIATE: To legally obligate by contract or otherwise commit to the
expenditure of funds by appropriation or other official act of the board of
commissioners.
BUILDING PERMIT: The City permit required for foundations, new construction and
additions.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS: Improvements with a useful life often (10) years or more,
by new construction or other action, which increases the service capacity of
District Capital Facilities.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS ELEMENT: A component of the Capital Improvements Plans
identified in the Fire District's CIP adopted by its governing board and the
City Council pursuant to Chapters 65 and 82 of Title 67, Idaho Code, and as
amended, which component meets the requirements of the Capital Improvements
Plan required by the Act.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PLAN: An Impact Fee Study and Capital Improvements Plan,
which has been recommended by the Advisory Committee and adopted by the Fire
District's Board of Commissioners and the City Council pursuant to the act that
identifies the Fire District Capital Facilities for which the Fire District's
impact fees may be used as a funding source.
CITY: The City of New Plymouth.
CITY COUNCIL: The City Council of the City of New Plymouth.
DEVELOPER: Any person or legal entity undertaking Development including a
Development that seeks an annexation into the City and/or undertakes the
subdivision of property pursuant to I.C. §§ 50-1301 through 50-1334, as
amended.
DEVELOPMENT: Any construction or installation of a building or structure, or
any change in use of a building or structure, or any change in the use,
character or appearance of land, which creates additional demand and need for
Public Facilities or the annexation into the City and/or subdivision of
property that would permit any change in the use, character or appearance of
land.
DEVELOPMENT APPROVAL: Any written duly authorized document from the City which
authorizes the commencement of a Development.
DEVELOPMENT IMPACT FEE CAPITAL PROJECTS TRUST FUND (the “TRUST FUND”): The New
Plymouth Fire Protection District Development Impact Fee Capital Trust Fund
which will include individual impact fee capital projects Trust Fund accounts
as established by action of the Fire District's board of commissioners.
DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENT: A requirement attached to a developmental approval or
other City governmental action approving or authorizing a particular
Development Project including, but not limited to, a rezoning, which
requirement compels the payment, dedication or contribution of goods, services,
land or money as condition of approval.
DISTRICT: The Fire District.
DISTRICT ADMINISTRATOR: The impact fee administrator appointed by the New
Plymouth Fire Protection District Impact Fee Administrator as established by
its Board of Commissioners.
DISTRICT CAPITAL FACILITIES: Fire District facilities, stations, apparatus,
vehicles and equipment which are identified in the Capital Improvement Plan,
and specifically including those related costs including System Improvements
Costs, but not including maintenance, operations, or improvements that do not
expand their capacity.
DISTRICT IMPACT FEES: A payment of money imposed as condition of Development
Approval to pay for a Proportionate Share of the Fire District's costs of
System Improvements needed to serve the Development. The term does not include
the following:
   (A)   A charge or fee to pay the administrative plan review, or inspection
cost associated with permits required for Development;
   (B)   Connection or hookup charges;
   (C)   Availability charges for drainage, sewer, water or transportation
charges for services provided directly to the Development; or
   (D)   Amounts collected from a Developer in a transaction in which the Fire
District has incurred expenses in constructing Capital Improvements for the
Development if the owner or Developer has agreed to be financially responsible
for the construction or installation of those Capital Improvements, unless a
written agreement is made, pursuant to I.C. § 67-8209(3) as amended, for credit
or reimbursement.
EXTRAORDINARY COSTS: Those costs incurred as result of an Extraordinary Impact.
EXTRAORDINARY IMPACT: An impact which is reasonably determined by the Fire
District Administrator to:
   (A)   Result in the need for District System Improvements, the cost of which
will significantly exceed the sum of the Development impact fees to be
generated from the Project or the sum agreed to be paid pursuant to a
Development agreement as allowed by I.C. § 67-8214(2), as amended; or
   (B)   Result in the need for District System Improvements which are not
identified in the Capital Improvements Plan.
FEE PAYER: The person who pays or is required to pay a Fire District impact
fee. A Fee Payer may include a Developer.
FIRE DISTRICT: The New Plymouth Fire Protection District, a fire district
organized and existing by virtue of the Fire Protection District Law, Chapter
14 of Title 31, Idaho Code.
FIRE DISTRICT BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS: The board of commissioners of the New
Plymouth Fire Protection District, which is its governing board.
INTERGOVERNMENT AL AGREEMENT: The City of New Plymouth/New Plymouth Fire
Protection District Intergovernmental Agreement and Joint Powers Agreement For
The Collection And Expenditure of Development Impact Fees For Fire District
System Improvements entered into by and between the City and the Fire District
pursuant to I.C. § 67-8204A for the collection and expenditure of impact fees
established pursuant to this title.
LAND USE ASSUMPTIONS: A description of the service area and projections of land
uses, densities, intensities and population in the service area over at least a
ten (10)-year period.
LEVEL OF SERVICE: A measure of the relationship between service capacity and
service demand for Public Facilities.
MANUFACTURED MOBILE HOME: A structure, constructed according to HUD/FHA mobile
home construction and safety standards, transportable in one (1) or more
sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight feet (8') or more in width or
is forty (40) body feet or more in length, or when erected on site, is three
hundred twenty (320) or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent
chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to required utilities, and includes the plumbing,
heating, air conditioning and electrical systems contained in such structure,
except that such term shall include any structure which meets all the
requirements of this subsection except the size requirements and with respect
to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the
secretary of housing and urban development and complies with the standards
established under 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.
MODULAR BUILDING: Any building or building component other than a Manufactured/
Mobile Home, which is constructed according to the International Building Code,
as adopted or any amendments thereto, which is of closed construction and is
either entirely or substantially prefabricated or assembled at a place other
than the building site.
PRESENT VALUE: The total current monetary value of past, present or future
payments, contributions or dedications of goods, services, materials,
construction or money.
PROJECT: A particular Development on an identified parcel of land.
PROJECT IMPROVEMENTS: In contrast to System Improvements, shall mean site
improvements and facilities that are planned and designed to provide service
for a particular Development Project and that are necessary for the use and
convenience of the occupants or users of the Project.
PROPORTIONATE SHARE: That portion of System Improvements Costs determined
pursuant to I.C. § 67-8207 which reasonably relates to the service demands and
needs of the Project.
PUBLIC FACILITIES: Land, buildings and equipment used for fire protection,
emergency medical and rescue, and water supply production, storage and
distribution facilities which have a useful life of ten (10) years or more.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicular type unit primarily designed as temporary
quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, which either has its own
motive power or is mounted on or drawn by another vehicle.
SERVICE AREA: Any defined geographic area within the City as identified by the
Fire District in which specific Public Facilities provide service to
Development within the areas defined, on the basis of sound planning or
engineering principles or both. For purposes of this title, there shall be one
Service Area encompassing all of the City of New Plymouth.
SERVICE UNIT: A standardized measure of consumption, use, generation or
discharge attributable to an individual unit of Development calculated in
accordance with generally accepted engineering or planning standards for a
particular category of Capital Improvements. As specifically used in this
title, Service Units include dwelling units as defined in City code and square
feet of nonresidential Development.
SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS: In contrast to Project Improvements, shall mean Capital
Improvements to Public Facilities which are designed to provide service to a
Service Area. For the purpose of this title, System Improvements are for Fire
District's fire prevention capital facilities.
SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS COSTS: Costs incurred for construction or reconstruction of
System Improvements, including design, acquisition, engineering and other
costs, and also including, without limitation, the type of costs described in
I.C. § 50-1702(h), as amended, to provide additional Public Facilities needed
to service new growth and development.
For clarification, System Improvements Costs do not include:
   (A)   Construction, acquisition or expansion of Public Facilities other than
Capital Improvements identified in the Capital Improvements Plan;
   (B)   Improvements, repair, operation or maintenance of existing or new
capital;
   (C)   Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing Capital
Improvements to serve existing development in order to meet stricter safety,
efficiency, environmental or regulatory standards;
   (D)   Upgrading, updating, expanding or replacing existing Capital
Improvements to provide better service to existing development;
   (E)   Administrative and operating costs of the Fire District and/or the
City unless such costs are attributable to development of the Capital
Improvements Plan, as provided in I.C. § 67-8208, as amended; and
   (F)   Principal payments and interest or other finance charges on bonds or
other indebtedness except financial obligations issued by or on behalf of the
District to finance Capital Improvements identified in the Capital Improvements
Plan. (Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
***** CHAPTER 3
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PLANS *****
SECTION:
13-3-1: Proportionate Determination Methodology
13-3-2: Service Areas
13-3-3: Review And Modification Of Capital Improvements Plan
13-3-4: Capital Improvements Plan Error Discovery
13-3-1: PROPORTIONATE DETERMINATION METHODOLOGY:
Impact Fees are determined by the approved Capital Improvement Plan and shall
not exceed a Proportionate Share of the cost of the System Improvements
determined in accordance with I.C. § 67-8207, as amended. Impact Fees shall be
based on actual System Improvements Costs or reasonable estimates of such
costs. The amounts of the Impact Fees shall be calculated using the methodology
contained in the Capital Improvements Plan which complies with the following:
   (A)   Based on a reasonable and fair formula or method under which the
Impact Fees imposed do not exceed a Proportionate Share of the costs incurred
or to be incurred by the City or a District, as the case may be, in the
provision of System Improvements to serve the new Development. The
Proportionate Share is the costs attributable to the new Development after the
consideration of the following:
      1.   Any appropriate credit, offset or contribution of money, dedication
of land or construction of System Improvements; and
      2.   Payments reasonably anticipated to be made by or as a result of a
new Development in the form of user fees and debt service payments; and
      3.   That portion of general tax or other revenues allocated by a
District to System Improvements; and
      4.   All other available sources of funding such System Improvements.
(B)   In determining the Proportionate Share of the cost of System Improvements
to be paid by the Developer, the following factors shall be considered by the
City or a District, as the case may be, and accounted for in the calculation of
the Impact Fees:
      1.   The costs of existing System Improvements within the Service Area;
and
      2.   The means by which existing System Improvements have been financed;
and
      3.   The extent to which the new Development will contribute to System
Improvements costs through taxation, assessments, or Developer or landowner
contributions, or has previously contributed to System Improvements costs
through Developer or landowner contributions; and
      4.   The extent to which the new Development is required to contribute to
the cost of existing System Improvements in the future; and
      5.   The extent to which the new Development should be credited for
providing System Improvements, without charge to other properties within the
Service Area; and
      6.   Extraordinary Costs, if any, incurred in serving the new
Development; and
      7.   The time and price differential inherent in a fair comparison of
fees paid at different times; and
      8.   The availability of other sources of funding System Improvements
including, but not limited to, user charges, general tax levies,
intergovernmental transfers, and special taxation.
   (C)   Levels of service. Impact Fees shall be calculated on the basis of
levels of service for Public Facilities adopted in this title that are
applicable to existing Development as well as new growth and Development. The
construction, improvement, expansion or enlargement of new or existing Public
Facilities for which the Impact Fees are imposed must be attributable to the
capacity demands generated by the new Development. (Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
13-3-2 SERVICE AREAS:
Service Areas include areas as are identified and defined in the approved
Capital Improvement Plan. (Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
13-3-3: REVIEW AND MODIFICATION OF CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PLAN:
Unless the City Council regarding the City's Capital Improvements Plan; and
unless the City Council and the District Commissioners regarding a District
Capital Improvements Plan deems some other period is appropriate, the City
Council and the District Commissioners shall, at least once every five (5)
years, commencing from the date of the original adoption of the Capital
Improvements Plan, review the Development potential and update the Capital
Improvements Plan in cooperation and in accordance with the procedures set
forth in I.C. § 67-8206, as amended. Each update shall be prepared by the
Administrator in consultation with the advisory committee. (Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
13-3-4: CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PLAN ERROR DISCOVERY:
If the City or a District discovers an error in a Capital Improvements Plan
which results in assessment or payment of more than a Proportionate Share of
System Improvements Costs on any proposed Development, the Administrator shall:
   (A)   Adjust the Impact Fees to collect no more than a Proportionate Share;
or
   (B)   Discontinue the collection of any Impact Fees until the error is
corrected by ordinance. (Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
***** CHAPTER 4
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENTS *****
SECTION:
13-4-1: Authority To Enter Into Intergovernmental Agreements
13-4-2: City And District Intergovernmental Agreements
13-4-3: District Governed By This Title
13-4-4: Amendments To Intergovernmental Agreement
13-4-1: AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENTS:
The City is a governmental entity that is empowered by the Act to adopt
development impact fee ordinances, and as such is authorized, by I.C. § 67-
8204A, to enter into Intergovernmental Agreement with highway districts, fire
districts, ambulance districts, water districts, sewer districts, recreational
water and sewer districts, or irrigation districts for the purpose of
developing joint plans for capital improvements or for the purpose of agreeing
to collect and expend development impact fees for system improvements. (Ord.
431, 9-2-2025)
13-4-2: CITY AND DISTRICT INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENTS:
The City has entered into an Intergovernmental Agreement with each District
which Intergovernmental Agreements are in full force and effect. (Ord. 431, 9-
2-2025)
13-4-3: DISTRICT GOVERNED BY THIS TITLE:
The Intergovernmental Agreements comply with this title and requires each
District to be governed by and to fully abide by the provisions of this title.
(Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
13-4-4: AMENDMENTS TO INTERGOVERNMENTAL AGREEMENT:
Any amendments of any Intergovernmental Agreement shall be implemented by
corresponding relevant amendments of this title which amendments shall not
apply to any Impact Fees then not expended and currently held in the Trust
Fund. (Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
***** CHAPTER 5
IMPOSITION OF IMPACT FEES AND PAYMENT *****
SECTION:
13-5-1: Impact Fees Imposed
13-5-2: Impact Fee Calculation
13-5-3: Impact Fee Schedules
13-5-4: Developer’s Election
13-5-5: Procedures
13-5-6: Certification Of Impact Fees Due
13-5-7: Payment And Receipt Of Fees
13-5-8: Payment Under Protest
13-5-1: IMPACT FEES IMPOSED:
Impact Fees are hereby imposed on all new Development within a Service Area, as
defined in the Capital Improvements Plan, in accordance with the impact fee
schedules as set forth in this chapter. (Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
13-5-2: IMPACT FEE CALCULATION:
The Impact Fees shall be calculated and imposed in accordance with the Impact
Fee schedule set forth in the Capital Improvements Plan which provide for
standard fees based on the total number of dwelling units or square feet of
nonresidential space in the Development, unless:
   (A)   The Fee Payer requests an individual assessment pursuant to chapter 8
of this title; or
   (B)   The Development will have an Extraordinary Impact pursuant to chapter
9 of this title. The methodology for determining the costs per Service Unit
provided for in the fee schedule is set forth in the Capital Improvements Plan.
(Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
13-5-3: IMPACT FEE SCHEDULES:
The schedules of development impact fees for the various land uses per unit of
development are herein set forth as follows:
   (A)   New Plymouth Fire Protection District:
 
Residential (per Single Family Dwelling Unit)         $1,237.00
Residential (per Multi-Family Dwelling Unit)          $728.00
Non-Residential (per 1,000 retail square feet)        $3,645.00
Non-Residential (per 1,000 office square feet)        $1,405.00
Non-Residential (per 1,000 industrial square feet)    $631.00
Non-Residential (per 1,000 Institutional square feet) $1,396.00
 
(Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
13-5-4: DEVELOPER'S ELECTION:
A Developer shall have the right to elect to pay a Project's Proportionate
Share of System Improvements Costs by payment of an Impact Fee according to the
fee schedule as full and complete payment of the Development Project's
Proportionate Share of System Improvements Costs, except as provided in I.C. §
67-8214(3), as amended. (Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
13-5-5: PROCEDURES:
The collection of Impact Fees shall be in accordance with the following:
   (A)   Building Permit. Upon submittal of complete Building Permit plans for
the Development to the City, the City shall calculate the Impact Fees for the
Development in accordance with an Impact Fee Schedule (section
13-5-3) unless the Fee Payer requests an individual assessment or is the
subject of a credit or the Administrator determines that the Development may
have Extraordinary Impact.
   (B)   Exemption. An exemption pursuant to §
13-7-1 of this title must be claimed by the Fee Payer upon application for a
Building Permit or manufactured home installation permit. Any exemption not so
claimed shall be deemed waived by the Fee Payer. (Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
13-5-6: CERTIFICATION OF IMPACT FEES DUE:
After the Impact Fees due for a proposed Development have been calculated by
the City pursuant to the Impact Fees Schedule or by the Administrator using the
individual assessment process or there is a credit or Extraordinary Impact, the
Fee Payer may request from the City or the Administrator a certification of the
amount of the Impact Fee due for that Development. Within thirty (30) days
after receiving such request the Administrator shall issue a written
certification of the amount of the Impact Fee due for the proposed Development.
Such certification shall establish the Impact Fee so long as there is no
material change to the Project as identified in the individual assessment
application, or the impact fees schedule of the Capital Improvements Plan. The
certification shall include an explanation of the calculation of the Impact Fee
including an explanation of factors considered under Idaho Code Section 67-
8207, and shall also specify the system improvement(s) for which the Impact Fee
is intended to be used. If the Impact Fee is calculated by the City pursuant to
the impact fee schedule, the City shall provide the certification to the Fee
Payer and the Administrator. If the impact fee is determined by the
Administrator following an individual assessment of the fee, the Administrator
shall provide the certification to the Fee Payer and the City. (Ord. 431, 9-2-
2025)
13-5-7: PAYMENT AND RECEIPT OF FEES:
The Impact Fees shall be paid to the City at the following times:
   (A)   If a Building Permit or Manufactured/Mobile Home installation permit
is required, then at the time before the permit is issued; or
   (B)   If no Building Permit or Manufactured/Mobile Home installation permit
is required, then at the time that construction commences; or
   (C)   At such other time as the Developer and City or a District, as the
case may be, have agreed upon in writing with notice to the City.
   (D)   All Impact Fees paid to the City pursuant to an intergovernmental
agreement shall then be delivered to the Administrator on a once-a-month basis.
   (E)   In the event Impact Fees are paid to a District, then the District
Administrator shall immediately notify the City of said payment. (Ord. 431, 9-
2-2025)
13-5-8: PAYMENT UNDER PROTEST:
A Fee Payer may pay an Impact Fee under protest in order not to delay in the
issuance of a Building Permit by the City. A Fee Payer making a payment under
protest shall not be estopped from exercising the right to appeal provided
herein, nor shall such Fee Payer be estopped from receiving a refund of any
amount deemed to have been illegally collected. (Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
***** CHAPTER 7
EXEMPTIONS *****
SECTION:
13-7-1: Exemptions
13-7-2: Exemption Claim Process
13-7-1: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this title shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   Rebuilding the same amount of floor space of a structure which is
destroyed by fire or other catastrophe, provided the structure is rebuilt and
ready for occupancy within two (2) years of its destruction; or
   (B)   Remodeling or repairing a structure which does not increase the number
of Service Units;
   (C)   Replacing a residential unit, including a Manufactured/Mobile Home,
with another residential unit on the same lot; provided that the number of
Service Units does not increase; or
   (D)   Placing a temporary construction trailer or office on a lot; or
   (E)   Constructing an addition on a residential structure which does not
increase the number of Service Units; or
   (F)   Adding uses that are typically accessory to residential uses, such as
a tennis court or a clubhouse, unless it can be clearly demonstrated that the
use creates a significant impact on the capacity of System Improvements; or
   (G)   The installation of a Modular Building, Manufactured/Mobile Home, or
Recreational Vehicle if the Fee Payer can demonstrate by documentation, such as
utility bills and tax records, that either:
      1.   A Modular Building, Manufactured/Mobile Home, or Recreational
Vehicle was legally in place on the lot or space prior to the effective date of
this title; or
      2.   An Impact Fee has been paid previously for the Modular Building,
Manufactured/Mobile Home, or Recreational Vehicle on that same lot or space.
   (H)   Construction that would otherwise be subject to payment of the
development impact fee pursuant to this chapter if undertaken by a taxing
district, as defined in I.C. § 63-201 or by an authorized public charter
school, as defined in I.C. § 33-5202A in the course of carrying out its
statutory responsibilities. (Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
13-7-2: EXEMPTION CLAIM PROCESS:
An exemption from an Impact Fee must be claimed on the application by the
Developer (Fee Payer) upon submitting their application for a Building Permit
or manufactured home installation permit. Any exemption not so claimed shall be
deemed waived by the Fee Payer. Applications for exemption shall be determined
by the Administrator within ninety (90) days of receipt of the claim for
exemption. (Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
***** CHAPTER 8
INDIVIDUAL ASSESSMENTS *****
SECTION:
13-8-1: Individual Assessment Process
13-8-1: INDIVIDUAL ASSESSMENT PROCESS:
Requests for individual assessment shall be processed in accordance with the
following:
   (A)   In lieu of calculating the amount of the Impact Fee pursuant to
section
13-5-3 and the Capital Improvements Plan, a Fee Payer may file a request with
the City or a District, that the amount of the required Impact Fee be
determined by the Administrator through an individual assessment for the
proposed Development. A request for an individual assessment process shall
involve consideration of studies, data, and any other relevant information
submitted by the Fee Payer to adjust the amount of the Impact Fee. If a Fee
Payer files a request for the use of an individual assessment, the Fee Payer
shall be responsible for retaining a qualified professional to prepare the
individual assessment that complies with the requirements of this title, at the
Fee Payer's expense. The Fee Payer shall, at the Fee Payer's expense, bear the
burden of proving by clear and convincing evidence that the resulting
individual assessment complies with the requirements of this title. The Fee
Payer shall bear the burden of proving by clear and convincing evidence that
the resulting individual assessment is a more accurate measure of its
Proportionate Share of the cost of System Improvements, based on the adopted
levels of service, than the Impact Fees that would otherwise be due pursuant to
section
13-5-3 and the Capital Improvements Plan.
   (B)   Each individual assessment shall be based on the same Level of Service
standards and unit costs for System Improvements used in the Capital
Improvements Plan, shall use an average cost (not a marginal cost) methodology,
and shall document the relevant methodologies and assumptions used.
   (C)   A request for an individual assessment shall be delivered and filed
with the City or a District Administrator, as the case may be, at any time that
the number of dwelling units in the proposed Development and the types and
amounts of Development in each nonresidential category identified in section
13-5-3, and the Capital Improvements Plan is known. Upon filing a request for
individual assessment, the City shall transmit the request to the Administrator
for review. The Administrator shall issue a written decision within thirty (30)
days following receipt of a completed request for individual assessment
together with all supporting information from the Fee Payer, so as not to
unreasonably delay the Developer's (Fee Payer's) subsequent applications to the
City for Building Permits.
   (D)   Each individual assessment request delivered to the Administrator may
then be accepted, rejected, or accepted with modifications by the Administrator
as the basis for calculating the Impact Fee. The criteria for acceptance,
rejection, or acceptance with modifications shall be whether the individual
assessment is a more accurate measure of demand for System Improvements Element
(s) created by the proposed Development, or the costs of those facilities, than
the applicable fee shown in the fee schedule attached to the Capital
Improvements Plan.
   (E)   The decision by the Administrator on an application for an individual
assessment shall include an explanation of the calculation of the Impact Fee,
shall specify the system improvement(s) for which the Impact Fee is intended to
be used, and shall include an explanation of those factors identified in I.C. §
67-8207.
   (F)   If an individual assessment is accepted or accepted with modifications
by the Administrator, then the Impact Fee due under this title for such
Development shall be calculated according to such individual assessment.
   (G)   The Administrator shall provide notice of final determination of an
individual assessment to the Developer (Fee Payer). (Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
***** CHAPTER 9
EXTRAORDINARY IMPACTS *****
SECTION:
13-9-1: Extraordinary Impact Determinations
13-9-1: EXTRAORDINARY IMPACT DETERMINATIONS:
Determinations of Extraordinary Impacts are made as follows:
   (A)   The Administrator shall review and determine whether the Development
application will impose Extraordinary Impact.
   (B)   If the Administrator determines that a proposed Development generates
Extraordinary Impact that will result in extraordinary Systems Improvements
Costs, the Administrator will notify the Fee Payer of their determination
within thirty (30) days after Administrator's receipt of the Development
application. Such notice shall include a statement that the potential impacts
of such Development on System Improvements are not adequately addressed by the
Capital Improvements Plan, and that a supplemental study, at the Fee Payer's
expense, will be required.
   (C)   Circumstances that may lead to a determination of Extraordinary Impact
include, but are not limited to an indication that the assumptions used in the
Capital Improvements Plan underestimate the level of activity or impact on
Capital Facilities from the proposed Development or activity.
   (D)   Within thirty (30) days following the designation of a Development
with Extraordinary Impact, the Administrator shall meet with the Fee Payer to
discuss whether the Fee Payer wants to:
      1.   Pay for the supplemental study necessary to determine the System
Improvements Costs related to the proposed Development;
      2.   Modify the proposal to avoid generating Extraordinary Impact; or
      3.   Withdraw the application for certification, Building Permit, or
Development.
   (E)   If the Fee Payer agrees to pay for the supplemental study required to
document the proposed Development's Proportionate Share of System Improvements
Costs, then the City or the District, as the case may be, and the Fee Payer,
shall jointly select an individual or organization acceptable to both to
perform such study. The Fee Payer shall enter into a written agreement with the
individual or organization to pay the costs of the study. Such agreement shall
require the supplemental study to be completed within thirty (30) days of such
written agreement unless the Fee Payer agrees to a longer time.
   (F)   Once the study has been completed, the Fee Payer may choose to:
      1.   Pay the Proportionate Share of System Improvements Costs documented
by the supplemental study;
      2.   Modify the proposed Development to reduce such costs; or
      3.   Withdraw the application.
   (G)   If the Fee Payer agrees to pay the System Improvements Costs
documented in the supplemental study, that agreement shall be reduced to
writing between the City or the District, as the case may be, and the Fee
Payer, prior to review and consideration of any application for any Development
or Building Permit related to the proposed Development.
   (H)   Notwithstanding any agreement by the Fee Payer to pay the
Proportionate Share of System Improvements Costs documented by the supplemental
study, nothing in this chapter shall obligate the City or a District to approve
Development that results in an Extraordinary Impact to the City or a District,
as the case may be. (Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
***** CHAPTER 10
DEVELOPER CREDITS AND REIMBURSEMENT *****
SECTION:
13-10-1: Developer Credits And Reimbursement Process
13-10-2: Credit Limitations
13-10-3: Valuation Of Credit At Present Value
13-10-4: When Credits Become Effective
13-10-5: Credit Request Procedures
13-10-1: DEVELOPER CREDITS AND REIMBURSEMENT PROCESS:
When a Developer or their predecessor in title or interest has constructed
System Improvements of the same category as a Capital Improvements Element, or
contributed or dedicated land or money towards the completion of System
Improvements of the same category as a Capital Improvements Element, and the
City or the District, as the case may be, has accepted such construction,
contribution or dedication, the City or the District, as the case may be, shall
issue a credit, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, against the
Impact Fees otherwise due for the same Capital Improvements Element in
connection with the proposed Development, as set forth in this section. Credit
shall be issued regardless of whether the contribution or dedication to System
Improvements was required as a condition of Development or was offered by the
Developer and accepted by the City or the District, as the case may be, in
writing, and regardless of whether the contribution or dedication was
contributed by the Developer or by a local improvement district controlled by
the Developer. (Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
13-10-2: CREDIT LIMITATIONS:
Credits against an Impact Fee shall not be given for:
   (A)   Project Improvements; or
   (B)   Any construction, contribution, or dedication not agreed to in writing
by the City or a District, as the case may be, prior to commencement of the
construction, contribution, or dedication. Credits issued for one Capital
Improvements Element may not be used to reduce the impact fee due for a
different capital improvement. No credits shall be issued for System
Improvements contributed or dedicated prior to the effective date of this
title. (Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
13-10-3: VALUATION OF CREDIT AT PRESENT VALUE:
The valuation of system improvements for credit against Impact Fees shall be in
accordance with the following:
   (A)   Land. Credit for qualifying land dedications shall, at the Fee Payer's
option, be valued at the Present Value of:
      1.   One hundred percent (100%) of the most recent assessed value for
such land as shown in the records of the county assessor; or
      2.   The fair market value established by a private appraiser acceptable
to the City or a District, as the case may be, in an appraisal paid for by the
Fee Payer.
   (B)   Improvements. Credit for qualifying acquisition or construction of
System Improvements shall be valued by the City or a District, as the case may
be, at the Present Value of such improvements based on complete engineering
drawings, specifications, and construction cost estimates as submitted by the
Fee Payer. The Administrator shall determine the amount of credit due based on
the information submitted, or, if it determines that such information is
inaccurate or unreliable, then on alternative engineering or construction costs
acceptable to the City or a District, as the case may be, as a more accurate
measure of the value of the offered System Improvements. (Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
13-10-4: WHEN CREDITS BECOME EFFECTIVE:
Credit against Impact Fees become effective in accordance with the following:
   (A)   Land. Approved credits for land dedications shall become effective
when the land has been conveyed to the City or a District, in a form
acceptable, at no cost, and has been accepted by the City or a District, as the
case may be. Upon request of the Fee Payer, the City or a District shall issue
a letter stating the amount of credit available, as the case may be.
   (B)   Improvements. Approved credits for acquisition or construction of
System Improvements shall generally become effective when:
      1.   All required construction has been completed and has been accepted
by the City or the District, as the case may be;
      2.   A suitable maintenance and warranty bond has been received and
approved by the to the City or the District, as the case may be; and
      3.   All design, construction, inspection, testing, bonding, and
acceptance procedures have been completed in compliance with all applicable
requirements of the City or a District, as the case may be and the State of
Idaho.
      Upon request of the Fee Payer, the City or a District, as the case may
be, shall issue a letter stating the amount of credit available. (Ord. 431, 9-
2-2025)
13-10-5: CREDIT REQUEST PROCEDURES:
The following are the procedural requirements for the processing of credit
against impact fees requests:
   (A)   Request. In order to obtain a credit against (an) Impact Fee(s)
otherwise due, a Fee Payer shall submit to the City or a District, as the case
may be, a written offer of request to dedicate specific parcels of qualifying
land or a written offer to contribute or construct specific System Improvements
to the Capital Facilities in accordance with all applicable state and local
governmental design and construction standards, and shall specifically request
a credit against the type of impact fee for which the land dedication or System
Improvements is offered. The City or a District, as the case may be, shall then
deliver the written offer of request to the Administrator.
   (B)   Review. After receipt of the written offer of request for credit, the
Administrator shall review the request and determine whether the land or System
Improvements offered for credit will reduce the costs of providing Capital
Facilities by an amount at least equal to the value of the credit. If the
Administrator determines that the offered credit satisfies those criteria and
will be acceptable to the City or the District Commissioners, as the case may
be, then the credit shall be issued. The review and determination of a written
offer/application for credit shall be completed by the Administrator within
thirty (30) days after receipt of a written offer and application for credit.
   (C)   Credits exceeding fee amounts due. If the credit due to a Fee Payer
pursuant to sections above exceeds the Impact Fees that would otherwise be due
from the Fee Payer pursuant to this title (whether calculated through the fee
schedule attached to the capital improvement plan or through an independent
assessment), the Fee Payer may choose to receive such credit in the form of
either:
      1.   A credit against future City or a District's Impact Fees due for the
same System Improvements; or
      2.   A reimbursement from Impact Fees paid by future Development that
impacts the System Improvements contributed or dedicated by the Fee Payer.
Unless otherwise stated in an agreement with the Fee Payer, the City, or the
District, as the case may be, shall be under no obligation to use any of its
funds other than Impact Fees paid by other Development for the same System
Improvements to reimburse the Fee Payer for any credit in excess of the Impact
Fees that are due.
   (D)   Written agreement required. If credit or reimbursement is due to the
Fee Payer pursuant to this section, the City or a District, as the case may be,
shall enter into a written agreement with the Fee Payer, negotiated in good
faith, prior to the contribution, dedication, or funding of the System
Improvements giving rise to the credit. The agreement shall provide for the
amount of credit or the amount of time and form of reimbursement, and shall
have a term not exceeding ten (10) years.
   (E)   The Administrator's determination on the written offer of request for
credit shall be provided to the Fee Payer and the City or the District
Commissioners, as the case may be. (Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
***** CHAPTER 12
REFUNDS *****
SECTION:
13-12-1: Duty To Refund
13-12-2: Holding Of Refunds
13-12-3: No Refund Due For Subsequent Reduction In Size Of Development Or
Service Units
13-12-4: Interest
13-12-5: Timing
13-12-1: DUTY TO REFUND:
Impact Fees shall be refunded to the Fee Payer, or to a successor in interest,
in the following circumstances:
   (A)   Service is available but never provided; or
   (B)   A Building Permit, or permit for installation of a manufactured home,
is denied by the City or abandoned; or
   (C)   The Fee Payer pays Impact Fees under protest and a subsequent review
of the fee paid or the completion of an individual assessment determines that
the fee paid exceeded the Proportionate Share to which the City or a District,
as the case may be, was entitled to receive; or
   (D)   The City or the District, as the case may be, collected the Impact
Fees and failed to Appropriate or expend the collected fees pursuant to the
section below; or
   (E)   Failure of the City or a District, as the case may be, to commence
construction or encumber the funds in the Development Impact Fee Capital
projects Trust Fund. (Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
13-12-2: HOLDING OF REFUNDS:
Any Impact Fee paid shall be refunded if the City or a District, as the case
may be, has failed to commence construction of System Improvements in
accordance with this title, or to Appropriate funds for such construction,
within eight (8) years after the date on which such Impact Fees were collected.
Any refund due shall be paid to the owner of record of the parcel for which the
Impact Fees were paid. The City or the District, as the case may be, may hold
Impact Fees for longer than eight (8) years if it is identified in writing and
in written notice to the owner of record of the parcel identifying:
   (A)   A reasonable cause for why the Impact Fees should be held longer than
eight (8) years; and an anticipated date by which the fees will be expended,
but in no event greater than eleven (11) years from the date the Impact Fees
were collected.
      1.   If the City or a District, as the case may be, fails to comply with
the previous sentence, fails to commence construction of System Improvements in
accordance with the written notice, or to Appropriate funds for such
construction on or before the date identified in such writing then any Impact
Fees so identified shall be refunded to the Fee Payer or to a successor in
interest, as the case may be. (Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
13-12-3: NO REFUND DUE FOR SUBSEQUENT REDUCTION IN SIZE OF DEVELOPMENT OR
SERVICE UNITS:
After Impact Fees have been paid pursuant to this title and after a certificate
of occupancy has been issued by the City, no refund of any part of such fee
shall be made if the Project for which the fee was paid is later demolished,
destroyed, or is altered, reconstructed, or reconfigured so as to reduce the
size of the Project or the number of units in the Project. (Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
13-12-4: INTEREST:
Each refund shall include a refund of interest at one-half the legal rate
provided for in I.C. § 28-22-104 from the date on which the fee was originally
paid. (Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
13-12-5: TIMING:
The City or a District, as the case may be, shall make a determination of
whether a refund is due within thirty (30) days after receipt of a written
request for a refund from the owner of record of the property for which the fee
was paid. When the right to a refund exists, the City or the District, as the
case may be, shall send the refund to the owner of record within ninety (90)
days after it determines that a refund is due. (Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
***** CHAPTER 14
APPEALS/MEDIATION *****
SECTION:
13-14-1: Appeals To The District's Commissioners
13-14-2: Appeals To The City Council
13-14-3: Mediation
13-14-1: APPEALS TO THE DISTRICT'S COMMISSIONERS:
Any Fee Payer who is or may be obligated to pay an Impact Fee, which is
established by the City by Intergovernmental Agreement, and who claims a right
to receive a refund, reimbursement, exemption, or credit under this title or is
otherwise dissatisfied with a decision made by the Administrator in applying
this title, may appeal such decision to the District Commissioners in
accordance with the following process:
   (A)   The Fee Payer shall have the burden of demonstrating that the decision
was in error.
   (B)   In order to pursue the appeal described in this subsection, the Fee
Payer shall file a written notice of appeal with the Administrator within
thirty (30) days after the date of the Administrator's decision, or the date on
which the Fee Payer submitted a payment of the Impact Fees under protest,
whichever is later. Such written notice of appeal shall include a statement
describing why the Fee Payer believes that the appealed decision was in error,
together with copies of any documents that the Fee Payer believes support the
claim.
   (C)   The Commissioners shall hear the appeal within sixty (60) days after
receipt of a written notice of appeal. The Fee Payer shall have a right to be
present and to present evidence in support of the appeal. The Administrator
shall likewise have the right to be present and to present evidence in support
of their decision. The criteria to be used by the District Commissioners in
considering the appeal shall be whether:
      1.   The decision or interpretation made by the Administrator or the
alternative decision or interpretation offered by the Fee Payer, more
accurately reflects the intent of this title that new Development in the
Service Area pay its Proportionate Share of the costs of System Improvements to
the District's facilities necessary to serve new Development and whether the
provisions of this title have been correctly applied. The District
Commissioners shall issue a decision upholding, reversing, or modifying the
decision being appealed within thirty (30) days after hearing the appeal. (Ord.
431, 9-2-2025)
13-14-2: APPEALS TO THE CITY COUNCIL:
Any Fee Payer who is or may be obligated to pay an Impact Fee which is
established by the City and is subject to an Intergovernmental Agreement, and
who claims a right to receive a refund, reimbursement, exemption, or credit
under this title or is otherwise dissatisfied with a decision made by the City
Administrator or the decision of the District Commissioners in applying this
title, may appeal such decision to the City Council.
   (A)   The Fee Payer shall have the burden of demonstrating that the City
Administrator's or the District Commissioners' decision was in error.
   (B)   In order to pursue the appeal described in this subsection, the Fee
Payer shall file a written notice of appeal with the City Administrator within
thirty (30) days after the date of the District Commissioners' decision. Such
written notice of appeal shall include a statement describing why the Fee Payer
believes that the appealed decision of the City Administrator or the District
Commissioners, as the case may be, was in error, together with copies of any
documents that the Fee Payer believes support the claim. The City Administrator
shall within three (3) business days deliver the notice of appeal together with
copies of any documents filed with it to the City Clerk.
   (C)   The City Council shall hear the appeal within sixty (60) days after
receipt by the City Clerk of a written notice of appeal. The Fee Payer shall
have a right to be present and to present evidence in support of the appeal.
The City Administrator or the District Administrator, as the case may be, shall
likewise have the right to be present and to present evidence in support of the
decision. The criteria to be used by the City Council in considering the appeal
shall be whether:
      1.   The decision or interpretation made by the City Administrator or the
District Commissioners' decision on appeal, or the alternative decision or
interpretation offered by the Fee Payer, more accurately reflects the intent of
this title that new Development pay its Proportionate Share of the costs of
System Improvements to facilities necessary to serve new Development and
whether the provisions of this title have been correctly applied. The City
Council shall issue a decision upholding, reversing, or modifying the decision
being appealed within thirty (30) days after hearing the appeal. (Ord. 431, 9-
2-2025)
13-14-3: MEDIATION:
Any Fee Payer that has a disagreement with an Administrator regarding an Impact
Fee determination that is or may be due for a proposed Development pursuant to
this title, may enter into a voluntary agreement with (depending upon the
progress of the protest) the City or the District, as the case may be, to
submit the disagreement to mediation by a qualified independent party
acceptable to both the Fee Payer and the City or the District.
   (A)   Mediation may take place at any time following the filing of a timely
appeal pursuant to sections
13-14-1 and
13-14-2, or as an alternative to such appeal, provided that the request for
mediation is filed no later than the last date on which a timely appeal could
be filed pursuant to section
13-14-2.
   (B)   Participation in mediation does not preclude the Fee Payer from
pursuing other remedies provided for in this section.
   (C)   If mediation is requested, any related mediation costs shall be shared
equally by the Fee Payer and the City or the District, (depending upon the
progress of the protest), and a written agreement regarding the payment of such
costs shall be executed prior to the commencement of mediation.
   (D)   In the event that mediation does not resolve the issues, the Fee Payer
retains all rights to seek relief from a court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord.
431, 9-2-2025)
***** CHAPTER 15
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS *****
SECTION:
13-15-1: No Requirement Of The City To Approve Extraordinary Impact Development
13-15-2: District Not Obligated To Approve Development That Reduces Levels of
Service
13-15-3: No Additional Right To Develop Created By This Title
13-15-4: No Limit on City's Eminent Domain Authority
13-15-5: Agreements Between Property Owners, Idaho Transportation Department
(LTD), And Other Governmental Entities For Construction Or Installation Of
System Improvements
13-15-6: Plan Of Alternative Sources Of Revenue
13-15-7: Safety Codes And Other Rules Applicable To Project Improvements
13-15-8: Development Approved By The City Prior To The Effective Date Of This
Title Not Subject To Impact Fees
13-15-9: Punishment
13-15-10: Liberal Construction
13-15-1: NO REQUIREMENT OF THE CITY TO APPROVE EXTRAORDINARY IMPACT
DEVELOPMENT:
Nothing in this title shall obligate the City to approve Development which
results m an Extraordinary Impact. (Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
13-15-2: DISTRICT NOT OBLIGATED TO APPROVE DEVELOPMENT THAT REDUCES LEVELS OF
SERVICE:
Nothing in this title shall obligate a District to approve any Development
request which may reasonably be expected to reduce levels of service below
minimum acceptable levels established in this title. (Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
13-15-3: NO ADDITIONAL RIGHT TO DEVELOP CREATED BY THIS TITLE:
Nothing in this title shall be construed to create any additional right to
develop real property or diminish the City in regulating the orderly
development of real property within its boundaries. (Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
13-15-4: NO LIMIT ON CITY'S EMINENT DOMAIN AUTHORITY:
Nothing in this title limits the use of the City's power of eminent domain or
supersedes or conflicts with requirements or procedures authorized in the Idaho
Code for local improvement districts or general obligation bond issues.
13-15-5: AGREEMENTS BETWEEN PROPERTY OWNERS, IDAHO TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT
(ITD), AND OTHER GOVERNMENTAL ENTITIES FOR CONSTRUCTION OR INSTALLATION OF
SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS:
Nothing in this title shall be construed to prevent or prohibit private
agreements between property owners or Developers, Idaho Transportation
Department, and governmental entities in regards to the construction or
installation of System Improvements or providing for credits or reimbursements
for System Improvements Costs incurred by a Developer including inter-project
transfers of credits or providing for reimbursement for Project Improvements
which are used or shared by more than one (1) Development Project. (Ord. 431,
9-2-2025)
13-15-6: PLAN OF ALTERNATIVE SOURCES OF REVENUE:
The City and the Districts shall each develop a plan for alternative sources of
revenue, which shall include but not necessarily be limited to plans generated
during their annual budget process. These alternative sources of revenue may
include lobbying efforts, tax increment financing, and implementation of user
fees, administrative and regulatory fees, and other forms of revenue. (Ord.
431, 9-2-2025)
13-15-7: SAFETY CODES AND OTHER RULES APPLICABLE TO PROJECT IMPROVEMENTS:
Nothing in this title shall prevent the City or a District from requiring a
Developer to construct reasonable Project Improvements, as are required by
applicable safety codes and other rules that are adopted which have
jurisdiction to enforce in conjunction with a Development. (Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
13-15-8: DEVELOPMENT APPROVED BY THE CITY PRIOR TO THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS
TITLE NOT SUBJECT TO IMPACT FEES:
Notwithstanding any other provision(s) of this title, that portion of a Project
for which a complete application for a Building Permit has been received by the
City, prior to the effective date of this title, shall not be subject to an
Impact Fee imposed by this title. If the resulting Building Permit is later
revised or replaced after the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
title, and the new Building Permit(s) reflects a Development with density,
intensity, size or number of units more than ten percent (10%) higher than
reflected in the original Building Permit, then the Impact Fee may be charged
on the difference in density, intensity, size or number of units between the
original and the revised or replacement Building Permit. (Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
13-15-9: PUNISHMENT:
Any person who violates any provision of this title shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by up to one (1) year in county jail, and/or a one
thousand dollar ($1,000.00) fine, or both. Knowingly furnishing false
information to any official of the City or a District charged with the
administration of this title, including without limitation, the furnishing of
false information regarding the expected size, use, or impacts from a proposed
Development, shall be a violation of this title. (Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
13-15-10: LIBERAL CONSTRUCTION:
All provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions contained in this title shall
be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the Act may
be fully carried out by the City Council and each District's Commissioners.
(Ord. 431, 9-2-2025)
***** APPENDIX A
VACATIONS *****
The following described premises are hereby vacated to the abutting owners,
being not necessary to the regular streets and alleys of the city and the same
shall revert to the abutting owners of the city:
Description of property to be vacated:
Beginning at the NW corner of Lot 6 in Block 1 of Ventures Replat, according to
the plat thereof on file in Book 3, Page 51, Plat Records of said County; run
thence North a distance of 20 feet; thence East and parallel to the North line
of said Block 1 a distance of 600 feet to a point 20 feet North of the NE
corner of Lot 1 of said Block 1; thence South 20 feet to said NE corner of Lot
1; thence West along the North line of said Block 1 a distance of 600 feet to
the point of beginning;
Beginning at the SW corner of Lot 7 in Block 1 of said Ventures Replat, run
thence South 10 feet; thence East and parallel to the South line of said Block
1 a distance of 600 feet to a point 10 feet South of the SE corner of Lot 12 in
said Block 1; thence North 10 feet to said SE corner of Lot 12; thence West
along the South line of said Block 1 a distance of 600 feet to the point of
beginning;
Beginning at the NW corner of Lot 6 in Block 2 of said Ventures Replat; run
thence North 10 feet; thence East and parallel to the North line of said Block
2 a distance of 600 feet to a point 10 feet North of the NE corner of Lot 1 of
said Block 2; thence South 10 feet to said NE corner of Lot 1; thence West
along the North line of said Block 2 a distance of 600 feet to the point of
beginning.
(11-6-1961)
The 80 foot street known as Holly Street in the Plat of the Original Townsite
abutting on Lots 6, 7 and 8 of Block 14 and on Lots 20, 21 and 22 of Block 15.
(7-6-1964)
The following described property, which is an unused portion of an alley
located within the city limits of New Plymouth, is hereby vacated by the city
of New Plymouth. Said property is described as follows:
   In the Original Townsite of the City of New Plymouth, Idaho; as per Plat in
Book 1, Page 38-A, Plat Records, Payette County, Idaho.
   The alleyway that runs east-west across Lot 16 Block 14.
   (Ord. 206, 3-15-1993)
The following described property, which is an unused portion of an alley
located within the city limits of New Plymouth, is hereby vacated by the city
of New Plymouth. Said property is described as follows:
   An alleyway lying on the north side of the following described property:
   In the Original Townsite of the City of New Plymouth, Idaho;
   In Block 1:      Lots 1, 2 and 3; and
   In Block 2: Lots 9–17.
   (Ord. 214, 7-18-1994)
That portion of the Moscrip Estates Subdivision plat, which is described as
Lots 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 of Moscrip Estates Subdivision which is found
in Book 4, Page 4 of plats, Plat records of Payette County, Idaho, is hereby
vacated subject to the following conditions:
      1) All easements granted, reserved or dedicated to the public for gas,
sewer, water, telephone, cable television, sewer, drainage, streets, alleys,
highways, or for any other public purpose are not vacated and remain dedicated
to the public.
      2) To protect a well which has been drilled by the city of New Plymouth,
it shall be required that when any structure is built upon any of the lots or
upon any of the property which was subject to this vacation, which structure
requires any kind of sewage disposal, that structure shall be hooked into the
city sewer system.
   (Ord. 257, 10-18-1999)
The following described real property lying within the city limits of the city
of New Plymouth, Payette County, Idaho, is hereby vacated, and subject to the
following conditions:
   That portion of Canal Street Right of Way lying East of the right of way
vacated by ordinance 155, North of Holly Avenue Original and West of Holly
Avenue Relocated.
   The city hereby reserves all water easements, sewer easements, road
easements, road rights of way, irrigation easements, power transmission and
telephone line easements, storm drains and storm drains coupled with irrigation
drains and all other easements of record or easements by prescription. The city
reserves all rights retained in any agreements, particularly, one agreement
commonly referred to as the Bellanger Agreement, recorded as instrument #398209
records of Payette County, Idaho, affecting real property whereupon
improvements have been placed over city utilities. In the event any
improvements need to be removed from any city easement, the city reserves the
right to require any landowner to remove the improvement at the landowner's
expense and restore the property to its original condition.
   (Ord. 347, 12-21-2015)
The following described public right-of-way be, and the same hereby is, vacated
as of the effective date of this Ordinance:
   All of Aspen Street as shown on the Harvey Subdivision plat that is located
in the Southwest ¼ of the Northeast ¼ of Section 9, Township 7 North, Range 4
West of the Boise Meridian, Payette County, Idaho, described as:
   Beginning at a found ½" rebar marking the Northwest corner of Lot 6, Harvey
Subdivision that is located in the Southwest ¼ of the Northeast ¼ of Section 9,
Township 7 North, Range 5 West of the Boise Meridian, Payette County, Idaho and
running N00°07'42"W 50.00 feet to the Southwest corner of Lot 5, Harvey
Subdivision; thence S89°45'32"E 277.55 feet along the South line of said Lot 5
to the Southeast corner of said Lot 5; thence S19°12'47W 52.87 feet to the
Northeast corner of Lot 6, Harvey Subdivision; thence N89°45'32"W 260.04 feet
along the North line of said Lot 6 to the Point of Beginning.
   Parcel contains 13,440 square feet or 0.31 acres, more or less.
   (Ord. 433, 1-20-2026)
