NEW ELLENTON, SOUTH CAROLINA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 2026-01, passed 2-17-2026
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   How code designated and cited
   
10.02   Rules of construction and definitions
   
10.03   Catchlines of sections
   
10.04   Effect of repeal of ordinances
   
10.05   Altering code
   
10.06   Supplementation of code
   
10.07   Severability of parts of code
   
10.08   Miscellaneous ordinances and resolutions not affected by code
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   The ordinances embraced in this and the following titles and chapters shall
constitute and be designated “The Code of Ordinances, City of New Ellenton,
South Carolina,” or “this code,” and may be so cited.
(Prior Code, § 1-1)
Statutory reference:
   Municipality to provide for codification and indexing of all ordinances, see
S.C. Code § 5-7-290
§ 10.02 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of construction. In the construction of this code, and of all
ordinances, the following rules shall be observed, unless such construction
would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the City Council.
      (1)   Computation of time. The time within which an act is to be done
shall be computed by excluding the first and including the last day; provided,
however, that if the last day of the period so compiled is a Saturday, a
Sunday, or legal holiday, such day shall be excluded and the time period shall
run until the end of the next day which is not a Saturday, a Sunday, or a legal
holiday.
      (2)   Delegation of authority. Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or other officer or official of the city to do some act or
perform some duty, it shall be construed to authorize the head of the
department or other officer or official to designate, delegate, and authorize
subordinates to do the required act or perform the duty, unless the terms of
the provision or section designate otherwise.
      (3)   Gender. A provision importing one gender shall extend and be
applied to the other genders.
      (4)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety, comfort, convenience, and
general welfare. Where any provision of this code imposes greater restrictions
or regulation upon the subject matter than the general provision imposed by the
code, the provision imposing the greater restriction or regulation shall be
deemed to be controlling.
      (5)   Joint authority. All words giving a joint authority to three or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
      (6)   Non-technical and technical terms. Words and phrases shall be
construed according to the common and approved usage of the language; but
technical words and phrases, and such others as may have acquired a peculiar
and appropriate meaning in law, shall be construed and understood according to
such meaning.
      (7)   Number. A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
      (8)   Or, and. OR may be read “and,” and AND may be read “or” if the
sense requires it.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, IN THE CITY. The City of New Ellenton, South Carolina. The phrase
IN THE CITY shall include any territory, jurisdiction of which, for the
exercise of the city’s regulatory power, has been conferred upon it by public
or local law.
      CORPORATE LIMITS, CORPORATION LIMITS. The legal boundary of the City of
New Ellenton, South Carolina.
      COUNCIL, CITY COUNCIL, GOVERNING BODY. The City Council of the City of
New Ellenton, South Carolina.
      COUNTY. The County of Aiken, South Carolina.
      KEEPER, PROPRIETOR. Persons, firms, associations, corporations, clubs,
and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or through a servant, agent, or
employee.
      MAYOR, OFFICER, EMPLOYEE. The Mayor, or other officer or employee, of the
City of New Ellenton, South Carolina. This shall also be true of any
commission, board, or department of the city.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OWNER. Any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, tenant in
partnership, joint tenant, or tenant by the entirety, of the whole or of a part
of such building or land.
      PERSON. Shall extend and be applied to firms, partnerships, associations,
organizations, and bodies politic and corporate, or any combination thereof, as
well as to individuals.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Every species of property except real property, as
herein defined.
      PRECEDING, FOLLOWING. Next before and next after, respectively.
      PREMISES. Place or places.
      PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, park, cemetery, school yard, and other public
ground, and open space adjacent thereto, and all rivers and other waterways.
      REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
      SIGNATURE, SUBSCRIPTION. The signature or subscription of a person, shall
include a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of South Carolina.
      STREET. Streets, avenues, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes, viaducts,
bridges, and approaches thereto, and all other public highways in the city, and
shall mean the entire width thereof between opposed abutting property lines; it
shall be construed to include a SIDEWALK unless the contrary is expressed or
unless such construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the
Council.
      TENANT, OCCUPANT. Any person holding a written or oral lease or who
occupies the whole or a part of such building or land, either alone or with
others.
      TENSE. Words used in the past or present tense shall include the future
as well as the past and present.
      WEEK. Seven days.
      WRITTEN, IN WRITING. Includes any representation of words, letters, or
figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 1-2)
Statutory reference:
   Computation of time, see S.C. Code § 15-1-20
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Acts p. 2401
§ 10.03 CATCHLINES OF SECTIONS.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in boldface type
are intended merely as catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections, and
shall not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of
the section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-enacted.
(Prior Code, § 1-3)
§ 10.04 EFFECT OF REPEAL OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinances in force
before or at the time the ordinance repealed took effect.
   (B)   The repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty
incurred before the repeal took effect, nor any suit, prosecution, or
proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for an offense committed or cause
of action arising under the ordinance repealed.
(Prior Code, § 1-4)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 2-7-20
§ 10.05 ALTERING CODE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to change or amend, by additions or
deletions, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete pages, or
portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such code in any manner whatsoever
which will cause the law of the city to be misrepresented thereby.
(Prior Code, § 1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.06 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contractor or by city personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the City Council. A
supplement to the code shall include all substantive, permanent, and general
parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement, and
all charges made thereby in the code. The pages of a supplement shall be so
numbered that they will fit properly into the code and will, where necessary,
replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete; the new pages
shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the code will be
current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in
the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the CODIFIER (meaning the
person, agency, or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, non-substantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them in a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles for sections
and other divisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes in
such catchlines, headings, and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other divisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing sections or other division numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter,” “this subchapter,” “this division,” and the like, as the case
may be, or to “sections __ to __” (inserting section numbers to indicate the
sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other non-substantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code; but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
(Prior Code, § 1-6)
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY OF PARTS OF CODE.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the City Council that the
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and phrases of this code are
severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section of this
code shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of the
court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any
of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, and sections of the
code.
(Prior Code, § 1-7)
§ 10.08 MISCELLANEOUS ORDINANCES AND RESOLUTIONS NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect any
ordinance or resolution:
   (A)   Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city, or
authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city’s
indebtedness, or any contract or obligation assumed by the city;
   (B)   Containing any administrative provisions of the City Council not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of this code;
   (C)   Granting any right or franchise and establishing any rates therefor;
   (D)   Dedicating, naming, establishing, location, relocating, opening,
paving, widening, vacating, and the like, any street or public way in the city;
   (E)   Making any appropriation;
   (F)   Levying or imposing taxes, not inconsistent with this code;
   (G)   Establishing or prescribing grades of streets in the city;
   (H)   Providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
   (I)   Dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the city, or
prescribing subdivision regulations;
   (K)   Adopting, extending, or contracting the boundaries of the city;
   (L)   Prescribing the number, classification, or compensation of any city
officers or employees, not inconsistent herewith;
   (M)   Prescribing zoning regulations, or rezoning particular property;
   (N)   Adopting the Mayor-Council form of government;
   (O)   Adopted after December 12, 1983;
   (P)   Not of a general and permanent nature; and
   (Q)   All such ordinances and resolutions are hereby recognized as
continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length
in this code.
(Prior Code, § 1-9)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this code or any ordinance of the city any act is
prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever in
such code the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is
declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the
violator of any such provision of this code or any ordinance shall be punished
by a fine not exceeding $500 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 30 days,
or, in the alternative, by work upon the public works of the city or the county
for a like period not exceeding 30 days. Each day any violation of any
provision of this code or of any ordinance shall continue shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (B)   In addition to the penalties hereinabove provided, any condition
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this code
shall be deemed a public nuisance and may be, by the city, abated as provided
by law, and each day that such condition continues shall be regarded as a new
and separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 1-8)
Cross-reference:
   Municipal court, see
Chapter 35
   Offenses, see Title XIII
   Traffic code, see Title VII
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see S.C. Code § 5-7-30
   Maximum penalties that municipal judge may impose, see S.C. Code §§ 14-25-
45, 14-25-65, 56-1-520, and 56-5-6150
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   MAYOR, COUNCIL
      
31.   ELECTIONS
      
32.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
33.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
34.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
35.   COURT
      
36.   LAW ENFORCEMENT AND PUBLIC SAFETY
      
37.   FINANCES AND TAXATION
CHAPTER 30: MAYOR, COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Form of government adopted
   
30.02   Qualifications of Mayor, City Council
   
30.03   Holding other office prohibited
   
30.04   Oath of office
   
30.05   Compensation fixed
   
30.06   Vacancies
   
30.07   Duties generally
   
30.08   Liability for neglect of duty, malpractice, and the like
   
30.09   Books, money, and the like to be delivered to successor upon expiration
of term
   
30.10   Taking official city records without authority
Meetings
   
30.25   Organizational meetings
   
30.26   Days of regular meetings; calling special meetings; meetings open
   
30.27   Presiding officer
   
30.28   Mayor Pro Tempore
   
30.29   Quorum
   
30.30   Roll call
   
30.31   Procedure in absence of quorum
   
30.32   Order of business
   
30.33   Preservation of order
   
30.34   When motion, resolution deemed in possession of Council; withdrawal
   
30.35   Recording of reasons for voting
   
30.36   Interested members not to vote
   
30.37   Clearing of Council Chambers
   
30.38   Resolution of parliamentary questions
   
30.39   Amendment alteration of rules
   
30.40   Ordinances; procedure for passage
   
30.41   Effective date of ordinances
   
30.42   Attendance of meetings
Cross-reference:
   City officials, see
Chapter 32
   Elections, see
Cha
pter 31
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT ADOPTED.
   The Council form of municipal government, with a Mayor and six Council
members, elected at large for four year terms, as provided in S.C. Code §§ 5-
11-10 through 5-11-40, is hereby adopted for the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-1)
§ 30.02 QUALIFICATIONS OF MAYOR, CITY COUNCIL.
   The Mayor and Council members shall be citizens of the United States and
shall be electors who actually reside within the corporate limits of the city,
and have so resided at least 90 days immediately preceding the date of the
election.
(Prior Code, § 2-20)
Statutory reference:
   Council as judge of election and qualifications of members, see S.C. Code §
5-7-210
§ 30.03 HOLDING OTHER OFFICE PROHIBITED.
   Neither the Mayor nor any other member of the City Council shall hold any
other office or position of honor, trust, or profit with the city. Should any
member of the Council accept any such position or office of honor, trust, or
profit, then the office as a member of Council, whether it be as Mayor or other
Council member, shall be immediately vacated.
(Prior Code, § 2-21)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 5-7-180
§ 30.04 OATH OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Newly elected officers, Mayor, and Council members shall not be
qualified pursuant to state law until at least 48 hours after the closing of
the polls.
   (B)   Prior to taking office, the Mayor and other newly elected members of
Council shall take the oath, as provided by S.C. Code § 5-15-150, to be
administered by the City Clerk and Treasurer.
   (C)   The newly elected officers shall take office at the first regular
Council meeting in January following the date of election.
(Ord. 11-29-21-2, passed 11-29-2021; Ord. 2025-05, passed 10-20-2025)
§ 30.05 COMPENSATION FIXED.
   The Mayor and other members of the City Council shall receive such salary as
may from time to time be provided by appropriate ordinance; except that the
Council shall not fix or increase the salary of the Mayor or other members
during the term of office for which they shall have been elected, but may fix
or adjust the salary of the Mayor and other Council members of the succeeding
administration.
(Prior Code, § 2-23)
Statutory reference:
   Salaries and expenses, see S.C. Code § 5-7-170
§ 30.06 VACANCIES.
   When a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor or other Council member, it
shall be the duty of the Council to fill such vacancy in the manner now or
hereafter provided for by state law.
(Prior Code, § 2-24)
Statutory reference:
   Filling vacancy, see S.C. Code § 5-7-200(b)
§ 30.07 DUTIES GENERALLY.
   It shall be the duty of the City Council to manage the affairs of the city
and to do all things required by the provisions of this code and by the statute
laws of the state.
(Prior Code, § 2-25)
§ 30.08 LIABILITY FOR NEGLECT OF DUTY, MALPRACTICE, AND THE LIKE.
   For any willful violation or neglect of duty, malpractice, abuse, or
oppression, the Mayor or other Council members so offending shall be liable to
punishment and civil liability as set forth in S.C. Code § 5-7-70.
(Prior Code, § 2-26)
§ 30.09 BOOKS, MONEY, AND THE LIKE TO BE DELIVERED TO SUCCESSOR UPON EXPIRATION
OF TERM.
   (A)   At the expiration of the term of any Council member, the member shall
pay over to such member’s successor in office any money in such member’s hands
or under such member’s control belonging to the municipality, and shall
likewise deliver up promptly at the end of such member’s term all books,
records, and other property incident to the office to such successor in office.
   (B)   On willful failure to do so, such member shall be subject to
punishment as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 2-27)
§ 30.10 TAKING OFFICIAL CITY RECORDS WITHOUT AUTHORITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to take any record from any municipal
office of the city without the consent of the officer having control of such
records.
(Prior Code, § 2-28) Penalty, see §
10.99
**** MEETINGS ****
§ 30.25 ORGANIZATIONAL MEETINGS.
   Those persons duly elected to the Council shall, after taking the oath of
office, meet and organize, and after having duly organized shall constitute the
City Council, which shall be the governing body of the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-30)
§ 30.26 DAYS OF REGULAR MEETINGS; CALLING SPECIAL MEETINGS; MEETINGS OPEN.
   (A)   Regular meetings of Council shall be held on the third Monday in each
month unless changed by a majority vote of members present at any regular or
special meeting.
   (B)   (1)   Special meetings of Council may be held on the call of the Mayor
or on the call of a majority of the members of the Council.
      (2)   Notice of a special meeting shall be given immediately to all
available members and the news media by the City Clerk and Treasurer.
   (C)   All regular and special meetings of the City Council shall be open to
the public.
(Prior Code, § 2-31)
Statutory reference:
   Freedom of Information Act, see S.C. Code §§ 30-3-10 et seq., 5 U.S.C. § 552
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 5-7-250
§ 30.27 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor shall preside at all Council meetings at which such
official is present.
      (2)   In the Mayor’s absence, the Mayor Pro Tempore shall preside.
   (B)   The presiding officer shall be entitled to a vote upon any matter
coming before the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-32)
§ 30.28 MAYOR PRO TEMPORE.
   (A)   The Council shall, at the first meeting of the newly constituted
Council, after any general election for City Council, elect one of its members
as Mayor Pro Tempore for a term of two years.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Mayor Pro Tempore to act as Mayor during
the absence or disability of the Mayor or, in the case of a vacancy, in the
office of the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 2-33)
Statutory reference:
   Mayor Pro Tempore elected from Council membership, see S.C. Code § 5-7-190
§ 30.29 QUORUM.
   (A)   In order to constitute a quorum, it shall be necessary for at least
four members of the Council to be present.
   (B)   When a quorum is present, as herein provided, any matter may be duly
passed and adopted by vote of a majority of such quorum.
(Prior Code, § 2-34)
Statutory reference:
   Quorum, see S.C. Code § 5-7-160
§ 30.30 ROLL CALL.
   At the hour appointed for a Council meeting, the Clerk and Treasurer shall
call the roll of members, mark the absentees, and announce whether a quorum be
present.
(Prior Code, § 2-35)
§ 30.31 PROCEDURE IN ABSENCE OF QUORUM.
   If a quorum should not appear within half an hour of the time appointed for
a Council meeting, the Clerk and Treasurer shall enter upon the minute book the
names of those members present and adjournment in consequence of no quorum.
(Prior Code, § 2-36)
§ 30.32 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   Upon the appearance of a quorum within the prescribed time, the Mayor shall
call the Council to order and the Council shall proceed to the business before
it in the following order:
   (A)   Welcome;
   (B)   The minutes of the proceedings of the last meeting or meetings shall
be read and the same approved or amended and signed by the Mayor;
   (C)   Approval of financial report;
   (D)   Recognition of visitors;
   (E)   Unfinished business;
   (F)   Water Department business;
   (G)   Announcements; and
   (H)   Adjournment.
(Prior Code, § 2-37)
§ 30.33 PRESERVATION OF ORDER.
   The Mayor shall preserve order and decorum, and decide all questions of
order, subject to an appeal to Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-38)
§ 30.34 WHEN MOTION, RESOLUTION DEEMED IN POSSESSION OF COUNCIL; WITHDRAWAL.
   After a motion or resolution is stated by the presiding officer, it shall be
deemed to be in possession of Council, but such may be withdrawn at any time
before amendment or decision.
(Prior Code, § 2-39)
§ 30.35 RECORDING OF REASONS FOR VOTING.
   Any member may, if such member desires, have such member’s reasons for
voting for or against any measure recorded on the minutes.
(Prior Code, § 2-40)
§ 30.36 INTERESTED MEMBERS NOT TO VOTE.
   No member shall vote on any question of a private nature, in the outcome of
which such member is personally or pecuniarily interested.
(Prior Code, § 2-41) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 30.37 CLEARING OF COUNCIL CHAMBERS.
   Under circumstances permitted by law, the Council may cause the Council
chamber to be cleared.
(Prior Code, § 2-42)
Statutory reference:
   For Freedom of Information Act, see S.C. Code §§ 30-3-10 et seq., 5 U.S.C. §
552
§ 30.38 RESOLUTION OF PARLIAMENTARY QUESTIONS.
   All procedural questions not provided herein shall be governed by “Robert’s
Rules of Order.”
(Prior Code, § 2-43)
§ 30.39 AMENDMENT ALTERATION OF RULES.
   The rules set out in this subchapter may be temporarily suspended by the
unanimous consent of all the members present, but shall not be repealed,
altered, or amended unless by the concurrence of two-thirds of all the members
of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-44)
§ 30.40 ORDINANCES; PROCEDURE FOR PASSAGE.
   The adoption of any ordinance shall require passage by a majority of those
members of the City Council present and voting upon two separate readings,
which readings shall be held at separate meetings, and such meetings shall be
held at least seven days apart. Approved nevertheless by unanimous consent of
those members present as to the existence of an emergency, any ordinance may be
passed by the unanimous vote of such members present.
(Prior Code, § 2-45)
Statutory reference:
   Enactment of ordinances for the government of the city, see S.C. Code § 5-7-
270
§ 30.41 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances shall take effect upon their publication, except as otherwise
specified in the ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 2-46)
§ 30.42 ATTENDANCE OF MEETINGS.
   (A)   The City Clerk and Treasurer shall prepare and have the amount each
official earned for the previous month direct deposited in his or her chosen
bank account each month.
   (B)   Members of City Council who fail to attend two regular monthly
meetings of the City Council shall not receive renumeration for the month(s)
during which they missed the third regular meeting and additional absences of
the City Council during the fiscal year. Exceptions to this will be made for
work obligations beyond their control or a death in their immediate family.
Council members are expected to notify the Mayor at least 48 hours before each
absence that is due to their work or a family death. The Mayor shall notify the
City Clerk and Treasurer at least 48 hours before each work-related or family
death related absence. Failure to perform the notification(s) will result in no
renumeration for the missed regular Council meeting(s).
(Ord. 11-18-2024, passed 11-18-2024)
CHAPTER 31: ELECTIONS
Section
   
31.01   Authority to conduct election transferred to County Election Commission
   
31.02   State election laws applicable
   
31.03   Election of Mayor and Council members
   
31.04   Election date; election and nomination schedule
   
31.05   Special elections
   
31.06   Filing fees
   
31.07   Reimbursement of costs
§ 31.01 AUTHORITY TO CONDUCT ELECTION TRANSFERRED TO COUNTY ELECTION
COMMISSION.
   Pursuant to S.C. Code § 5-15-145, as amended, and according to the
previously approved city Ord. 01-21-20, the City Municipal Election Commission
is hereby abolished and all authority to conduct municipal elections is
transferred to the County Election Commission.
(Ord. 2025-05, passed 10-20-2025)
§ 31.02 STATE ELECTION LAWS APPLICABLE.
   State election law, as set forth in the 1976 Code of Laws of South Carolina,
as amended, is hereby adopted and made part of this code, except as otherwise
provided in Title 5 of the 1976 Code of Laws, as amended. All elections within
the city, whether general or special, shall be governed by the applicable
provisions of the state election laws as well as the provisions of this chapter
not in conflict with such state laws.
(Ord. 2025-05, passed 10-20-2025)
§ 31.03 ELECTION OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   The Mayor and six City Council members shall be elected at large for four-
year terms. Such terms should be staggered so that three Council seats are
filled by election every two years. Elections shall be held every other year,
such that the Mayor’s seat and three Council seats appear on the ballot one
year, followed two years later by the other three Council seats. Candidates for
Mayor and Council must be residents of the city and must continue to so reside
for their entire term.
(Ord. 2025-05, passed 10-20-2025)
§ 31.04 ELECTION DATE; ELECTION AND NOMINATION SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Election date; date of taking office. All general elections for the
election of Mayor and members of the City Council shall be held on the first
Tuesday following the first Monday in November in each odd-numbered year, and
the Mayor and the members of the City Council so elected shall take office and
assume duties of their respective offices at the first meeting held in January
following the election. Where the results are contested, the incumbent shall
hold over until the contest is determined.
   (B)   Nomination and election schedule.
      (1)   The beginning and the ending dates for nomination and election
events held in each municipal general election year shall be in accord with the
following schedule.
         (a)   The opening of filing for nomination petitions and other filing
of candidates for nomination in municipal political party primaries or
conventions shall be 12:00 p.m. noon on the first Monday in July.
         (b)   The closing of the filing of candidates for nomination by
political parties or conventions shall be 12:00 p.m. noon on the second Monday
in July.
         (c)   A convention or primary election can be held by the parties.
         (d)   If the primary election is chosen, it will be held on the second
Tuesday in August and the run-off, if necessary, will be held on the fourth
Tuesday of August.
         (e)   The last day for certifying candidates to the County Election
Commission shall be 12:00 p.m. noon on the sixtieth day prior to the municipal
general election.
         (f)   Election day shall be the first Tuesday after the first Monday
in November.
      (2)   When any date prescribed in this division (B) falls on a Saturday,
Sunday, or legal holiday, the alternate date shall be the next business day to
the extent such alternate dates do not conflict with state law. Filings shall
be submitted in accordance with the rules and regulations of the County
Election Commission.
   (C)   Special elections. This section shall not apply to a special election
which may be required to fill the unexpired term of the Mayor or any member of
the Council because of resignation, death, disqualification, or any other cause
requiring a special election to fill a vacant office of the Mayor or any member
of the City Council.
(Ord. 2025-05, passed 10-20-2025)
Statutory reference:
   Sixty-day notice requirements, see S.C. Code 1976, § 5-15-50
§ 31.05 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   The nomination schedule in §
31.04 shall not apply to a special election which may be required to fill an
unexpired term of the Mayor or any member of the Council because of
resignation, death, disqualification, or any other cause requiring a special
election. Any unexpired term of an elected official shall be filled by special
election, except where less than six months is left of the elected official’s
term. Special elections shall be held on the first Tuesday after the first
Monday in November or at such times as further set by ordinance.
(Ord. 2025-05, passed 10-20-2025)
§ 31.06 FILING FEES.
   (A)   Filing fees are paid by candidates seeking the nomination of a party
that nominates by primary. The fees are paid at the time the candidate files
for office. The filing fee for each office is 1% of the total salary for the
term of that office or $100, whichever amount is greater. Filing fees are
determined using the base salary for the office in January of each election
year. Filing fees are designated by law to offset state costs associated with
the conduct of party primaries.
(S.C. Code § 7-13-40)
   (B)   Candidates filing with parties that nominate by convention and
candidates filing by petition do not pay a filing fee.
(Ord. 2025-05, passed 10-20-2025)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 7-13-40
§ 31.07 REIMBURSEMENT OF COSTS.
   The city shall reimburse the County Elections Commission for all costs
incurred in providing ballots, advertising elections, printing costs, postage,
transportation costs, temporary help, programming charges, poll managers
compensation, and other related additional expenses incurred in its conduct of
municipal elections in the city. In the event a protest is filed or litigation
is commenced in connection with the conduct of municipal elections, the city
shall pay all court costs, attorney fees, court reporter fees and costs, and
other costs and expenses incurred in such protest or litigation. The Election
Commission for the county shall provide invoices and/or other documentation to
the city for all such costs and expenses incurred in the conduct of the city
municipal elections, protests, certifications of results, litigation, or other
costs which may be incurred not specifically mentioned in this chapter.
(Ord. 2025-05, passed 10-20-2025)
CHAPTER 32: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Appointment of certain officials; Chief of Police
Clerk and Treasurer
   
32.15   Election; bond required; compensation
   
32.16   Duty to keep record of minutes, rules, bylaws, ordinances
   
32.17   Duty to give notice of Council meetings
   
32.18   Duty to collect claims and accounts
   
32.19   Duty to receive moneys for city
   
32.20   Duty to collect license fees
   
32.21   Duty to issue licenses and badges
   
32.22   Duty to deposit city funds
   
32.23   Duty to keep account of city moneys, make fiscal reports to Council
   
32.24   Additional duties as assigned
Other Officials
   
32.35   City Attorney
   
32.36   Office of Administrator
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 32.01 APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN OFFICIALS; CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The City Council shall appoint and commission a Police Chief and employ such
additional employees as may from time to time be deemed necessary by it.
(Prior Code, § 2-3)
**** CLERK AND TREASURER ****
§ 32.15 ELECTION; BOND REQUIRED; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The City Council shall appoint, by majority vote, a Clerk and
Treasurer, who shall execute such bond for the faithful performance of the
duties as may be fixed from time to time by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   The salary of the Clerk and Treasurer shall be fixed by the City
Council prior to election.
(Prior Code, § 2-50)
Statutory reference:
   Appointment of Clerk and Treasurer, see S.C. Code § 5-7-220
§ 32.16 DUTY TO KEEP RECORD OF MINUTES, RULES, BYLAWS, ORDINANCES.
   (A)   The Clerk and Treasurer shall attend all Council meetings and keep a
book in which he or she shall carefully record the minutes of all such
meetings.
   (B)   He or she shall also keep a separate book in which shall be entered
these and all other rules, bylaws, and ordinances which Council shall pass.
(Prior Code, § 2-51)
Statutory reference:
   Duties of the Clerk and Treasurer, see S.C. Code, § 5-7-220
§ 32.17 DUTY TO GIVE NOTICE OF COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   The Clerk and Treasurer shall give notice to all members of the Council of
all regular and special meetings.
(Prior Code, § 2-52)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 5-7-220
§ 32.18 DUTY TO COLLECT CLAIMS AND ACCOUNTS.
   The Clerk and Treasurer shall collect all claims and accounts that may be
due and payable to the city.
(Prior Code, § 2-53)
§ 32.19 DUTY TO RECEIVE MONEYS FOR CITY.
   The Clerk and Treasurer shall receive all moneys belonging to the city,
except as otherwise provided.
(Prior Code, § 2-54)
§ 32.20 DUTY TO COLLECT LICENSE FEES.
   The Clerk and Treasurer shall collect all fees for licenses that may be
imposed and required by law.
(Prior Code, § 2-55)
§ 32.21 DUTY TO ISSUE LICENSES AND BADGES.
   The Clerk and Treasurer shall issue all licenses and badges for which
provision may be made.
(Prior Code, § 2-56)
§ 32.22 DUTY TO DEPOSIT CITY FUNDS.
   The Clerk and Treasurer shall deposit daily, in such bank as the Council may
direct, all funds of the city received by such Clerk and Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 2-57)
§ 32.23 DUTY TO KEEP ACCOUNT OF CITY MONEYS, MAKE FISCAL REPORTS TO COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Clerk and Treasurer shall keep an account of all moneys belonging
to the city in such form as may be required by the Council.
   (B)   The Clerk and Treasurer shall balance such accounts every month and
shall report to the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-58)
§ 32.24 ADDITIONAL DUTIES AS ASSIGNED.
   The Clerk and Treasurer shall perform such other duties as may be assigned
to such office.
(Prior Code, § 2-59)
**** OTHER OFFICIALS ****
§ 32.35 CITY ATTORNEY.
   (A)   The City Council shall appoint a City Attorney, whose term of office
shall be during the pleasure of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-4)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to enter appearance in
all actions, cases, and special proceedings and to conduct all suits in all
courts in which the city is, or shall be, a party, to prepare legal papers, and
give opinions on questions of law when requested so to do by the Mayor or the
Council.
      (2)   Such opinions shall be in writing and shall be filed with the City
Clerk and Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 2-5)
   (C)   (1)   The salary of the City Attorney shall be for the ordinary
services rendered to the Mayor and the Council as provided and regulated by
resolution of the Council and for appearance in the Municipal Court.
      (2)   For extraordinary services and for appearing in the Circuit Court
or Supreme Court of the state, or the United States’ courts, the City Attorney
shall be entitled to make additional reasonable charges.
(Prior Code, § 2-6)
Statutory reference:
   Appointment of City Attorney, see S.C. Code § 5-7-230
§ 32.36 OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The office of Administrator is hereby created.
   (B)   The Administrator shall direct the affairs of the city, subject to the
direction and supervision of the City Council, the duties of which are set out
within the job description and in any such contract agreed upon between the
city and the Administrator.
   (C)   In the event of the temporary absence or disability of the
Administrator, the Mayor may designate a qualified person to perform the duties
of the Administrator.
(Ord. 2026-01, passed 2-17-2026)
CHAPTER 33: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Departments, commissions, boards, authorities created; administrative
rules, regulations, procedures
Commissions
   
33.15   Commission of Public Works (CPW)
Cross-reference:
   Department of Recreation, see §
93.01
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 33.01 DEPARTMENTS, COMMISSIONS, BOARDS, AUTHORITIES CREATED; ADMINISTRATIVE
RULES, REGULATIONS, PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The following departments, boards, commissions, and authorities are
created:
      (1)   Police Department;
      (2)   Fire Department;
      (3)   Sanitation Department;
      (4)   Recreation Department;
      (5)   Planning Commission;
      (6)   Zoning Board; and
      (7)   Commission of Public Works.
   (B)   The head of each such department, board, commission, and authority
shall have supervision and control of such person’s department, board,
commission, or authority subject to the City Council.
   (C)   Each such administrative head shall be responsible for the preparation
of administrative rules, regulations, and procedures, subject to the review and
approval of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 2-2)
Statutory reference:
   City Council, by ordinance, may create, change, or abolish departments and
offices, see S.C. Code § 5-11-40
**** COMMISSIONS ****
§ 33.15 COMMISSION OF PUBLIC WORKS (CPW).
   (A)   (1)   Principal purpose. To provide public utilities, limited to water
supply and distribution, ownership, operation, and maintenance of all
facilities and activities for such utilities. To provide such water use to its
customers and to protect the public health, welfare, and environment.
      (2)   Policy. It is the policy of the CPW to establish, operate, and
maintain water services and to comply with state and federal regulatory
requirements.
      (3)   Legal basis of CPW. The CPW is created under the provisions of S.C.
Code §§ 5-31-210 et seq.
      (4)   Composition. The governing body of the CPW is composed of five
members who are elected in accordance with state law. The members will be known
as the Commissioners who serve at large and who are required to be residents
within the city limits.
      (5)   Length of term. The Commissioners are elected for six-year terms.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners of Public Works of the city shall employ
such employees as it may deem necessary. The Clerk and Treasurer, as well as
the Commissioners and other employees, shall be bonded. The premium of such
bonds shall be paid by the Board of Commissioners of Public Works and charged
to the expense of operation of the waterworks.
(Prior Code, § 11-2)
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners of Public Works shall not incur any
indebtedness without the concurrence of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 11-3)
   (D)   The Board of Commissioners of Public Works shall make a full statement
to the City Council at the end of each month of its receipts and disbursements
of all kinds during the preceding month.
(Prior Code, § 11-4)
   (E)   There shall be made an annual audit of the records of the affairs of
the Board of Commissioners of Public Works. Such audit shall be made by an
auditor who shall be a certified public accountant. The audit shall be made in
the month of December following the closing of books in November. Upon the
completion of any audit, the auditor shall file a report of such audit with the
Board and with the City Clerk and Treasurer and a copy with the Housing Home
Finance Agency in Atlanta, Georgia, or its successor. Such report on file in
the City Hall shall become a public record, subject to inspection by whoever
may so desire. The costs of such audits shall be paid by the Board of
Commissioners of Public Works.
(Prior Code, § 11-5)
(Ord. passed 5-21-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code §§ 5-31-210, 5-31-260, and 5-31-270
CHAPTER 34: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
34.01   Definition
   
34.02   Powers, duties of Emergency Preparedness Organization
   
34.03   Director
   
34.04   Responsibilities of Emergency Preparedness Agency, volunteers
   
34.05   Compensation, immunity of volunteers
   
34.06   Formulation of survival plan
   
34.07   Proclamation imposing regulations; issuance, scope
   
34.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Emergency preparedness, see S.C. Code § 25-1-450
   Power to provide for security and the like, see S.C. Code § 5-7-30
§ 34.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS. Measures for the mobilization, organization, and
direction of civilian population and necessary support agencies to prevent or
minimize the effects of fire, flood, earthquake, and epidemic, as well as the
effects of a nuclear war, or subversive activities against the population,
communities, industrial plants, facilities, and other installations in the
city.
(Prior Code, § 5-1)
§ 34.02 POWERS, DUTIES OF EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS ORGANIZATION.
   It shall be the duty of the City Emergency Preparedness Organization and it
is hereby empowered:
   (A)   Development of survival plan. To develop a city emergency operation
survival plan. This plan shall provide for the effective mobilization of all
resources of the city, both private and public;
   (B)   Implementation of survival plan. To prepare and recommend for
consideration by the City Council a resolution necessary to implement the
emergency operational survival plan; and
   (C)   Mutual aid plans and agreements. To consider and recommend mutual aid
plans and agreements to the City Council for approval.
(Prior Code, § 5-2)
§ 34.03 DIRECTOR.
   (A)   If deemed appropriate, there may be created the office of a City
Emergency Preparedness Director, such officer to be named by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 5-3)
   (B)   The Emergency Preparedness Director is hereby charged with the
following duties:
      (1)   Represent Council. To represent the City Council on all matters
pertaining to emergency preparedness;
      (2)   Direct city forces. During periods of emergency, to direct the
services of all city emergency preparedness forces;
      (3)   Prepare and implement survival plans. To obtain and utilize
cooperation of city officials in the preparation and implementation of all
emergency operational survival plans; and
      (4)   Acquire supplies and equipment. During periods of emergency, to
obtain vital supplies and equipment needed for the protection of life and
property of people.
(Prior Code, § 5-4)
§ 34.04 RESPONSIBILITIES OF EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS AGENCY, VOLUNTEERS.
   Officers and employees of the City Emergency Preparedness Organization
Agency, with volunteer forces enrolled to aid them during an emergency, and all
groups, organizations, and persons who make the agreements on operation of law,
shall be charged with the duties necessary for the protection of life and
property in the city during an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 5-5)
§ 34.05 COMPENSATION, IMMUNITY OF VOLUNTEERS.
   All persons, other than officers and employees of the city, volunteering in
service pursuant to this chapter shall serve without compensation. While
engaged in such services, they shall have the same immunities as officers and
employees of the city performing similar duties.
(Prior Code, § 5-6)
§ 34.06 FORMULATION OF SURVIVAL PLAN.
   A complete and adequate emergency operational survival plan shall, when
appropriate, be formulated, to be based upon plans formulated by, and in, the
State Operational Survival Plan, and to be coordinated with the County Survival
Plan.
(Prior Code, § 5-7)
§ 34.07 PROCLAMATION IMPOSING REGULATIONS; ISSUANCE, SCOPE.
   (A)   Whenever, in the judgment of a majority of the Council members in
Council assembled, it is determined that an emergency exists as a result of mob
action or other civil disobedience, causing danger of injury to, or damages to,
persons or property, such body shall have power to impose by proclamation any
or all of the following regulations necessary to preserve the peace and order
of the city:
      (1)   To impose a curfew upon all or any portion of the city, thereby
requiring all persons in such designated curfew areas to forthwith remove
themselves from the public streets, alleys, parks, or other public places;
provided, however, that physicians, nurses, and ambulance operators performing
medical services, utility personnel maintaining essential public services,
firefighters, and city authorized or requested law enforcement officers and
personnel may be exempted from such curfew;
      (2)   To order the closing of any business establishment anywhere within
the city for the period of the emergency, such businesses to include, but not
to be limited to, those selling intoxicating liquors, cereal or malt beverages,
gasoline, or firearms;
      (3)   To designate any public street, thoroughfare, or vehicle parking
area closed to motor vehicles and pedestrian traffic; and
      (4)   To call upon regular and auxiliary law enforcement agencies and
organizations within or without the city to assist in preserving and keeping
the peace within the city.
(Prior Code, § 5-8)
   (B)   The proclamation of emergency provided herein shall become effective
upon its issuance and dissemination to the public by appropriate news media.
(Prior Code, § 5-9)
   (C)   In using preventive measures before an emergency exists, the
proclamation and this chapter give the police the authority to remove any
juvenile under the age of 17 years from the streets and other public places of
the city after midnight.
(Prior Code, § 5-10)
   (D)   Any emergency proclaimed in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter shall terminate after 48 hours from the issuance thereof or upon the
issuance of a proclamation determining an emergency no longer exists, whichever
occurs first; provided, however, that such emergency may be extended for such
additional periods of time as determined necessary by resolution of the
governing body.
(Prior Code, § 5-11)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with the orders of
duly authorized law enforcement officers or personnel charged with the
responsibility of enforcing the proclamation of emergency authorized herein
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction therefor, shall be
punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 5-12)
CHAPTER 35: COURT
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Municipal Court created
   
35.02   Jurisdiction
   
35.03   Municipal Judge; authorized, compensation, facilities, oath, absence in
officer
   
35.04   Clerk of Municipal Court
   
35.05   Fines
   
35.06   Trial
   
35.07   Recording Municipal Court trials
   
35.08   Appeals
Juries
   
35.20   Jury commissioners and duties
   
35.21   Composition of jury list
   
35.22   Selection of jury; disposition of names
   
35.23   Failure of juror to appear
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 35.01 MUNICIPAL COURT CREATED.
   There is established a Municipal Court for the city, which shall be part of
the unified judicial system of the state, for the trial and determination of
all cases arising within its jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 6-1) (Ord. 4-11-83, passed 4-11-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to establish, see S.C. Code § 14-25-5
§ 35.02 JURISDICTION.
   The Municipal Court shall have jurisdiction to try and determine all cases
arising under the ordinances of the city now in force or which may be hereafter
enacted. The Municipal Court shall also have all such powers, duties, and
jurisdiction in criminal cases made under the laws of the state and conferred
by law upon magistrates. The Municipal Court shall have the power to punish for
contempt of court by imposition of sentences up to the limits imposed by law on
municipal courts. The Municipal Court shall have no power to try and determine
cases involving civil matters.
(Prior Code, § 6-2) (Ord. 4-11-83, passed 4-11-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Jurisdiction, see S.C. Code §§ 14-25-45, 14-25-65, 56-1-520, and 56-5-6150
§ 35.03 MUNICIPAL JUDGE; AUTHORIZED, COMPENSATION, FACILITIES, OATH, ABSENCE IN
OFFICER.
   (A)   The Municipal Court shall have jurisdiction to try and determine all
cases arising under the ordinances of the city now in force or which may be
hereafter enacted. The Municipal Court shall also have all such powers, duties,
and jurisdiction in criminal cases made under the laws of the state and
conferred by law upon magistrates. The Municipal Court shall have the power to
punish for contempt of court by imposition of sentences up to the limits
imposed by law on municipal courts. The Municipal Court shall have no power to
try and determine cases involving civil matters.
(Prior Code, § 6-3)
   (B)   (1)   In the event of the temporary absence, sickness, or disability
of the Municipal Judge, the Mayor shall designate a practicing attorney or some
other person who has received training or experience in Municipal Court
procedure or a Municipal Judge of another municipality to hold and preside over
the Municipal Court of the city.
      (2)   Before entering upon the discharge of the duties of acting
Municipal Judge, the person shall take the oath prescribed by Art. VI, § 5, of
the State Constitution.
      (3)   The acting Municipal Judge shall be compensated at the same rate as
the Municipal Judge.
      (4)   In the event of a vacancy in the office of Municipal Judge, the
Council shall appoint a successor in the same manner as the original
appointment for the unexpired term.
(Prior Code, § 6-4)
(Ord. 4-11-83, passed 4-11-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code §§ 14-25-15 et seq. and 14-25-25
§ 35.04 CLERK OF MUNICIPAL COURT.
   (A)   The Council may appoint and fix the compensation for a Clerk of
Municipal Court, who shall hold office at the pleasure of the Council and shall
be subject to the supervision of the Municipal Judge.
   (B)   The Clerk of Municipal Court shall keep such records and make such
reports as may be determined by the State Court Administrator and the Council.
Nothing in this action shall be construed as prohibiting the Council from
appointing the municipal Clerk and Treasurer or other municipal employee to
serve as Clerk of Municipal Court.
(Prior Code, § 6-5) (Ord. 4-11-83, passed 4-11-1983)
§ 35.05 FINES.
   (A)   Whenever the Municipal Judge finds a party guilty of violating a
municipal ordinance or a state law within the jurisdiction of the Municipal
Court, such judge may impose a fine or imprisonment, or both, not to exceed
$500, or 30 days.
   (B)   The Municipal Judge in such judge’s discretion may suspend sentences
imposed by such judge upon such terms and conditions as such judge deems
proper, including, without limitation, restitution, or public service
employment.
   (C)   All fines and penalties collected by the Municipal Court shall be
forthwith turned over by the Clerk of Municipal Court to the Municipal Clerk
and Treasurer for deposit to the General Fund of the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-6) (Ord. 4-11-83, passed 4-11-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code §§ 14-25-65 et seq.
§ 35.06 TRIAL.
   (A)   The Municipal Judge shall speedily try all persons charged with
violations of municipal ordinances or the laws of the state within the
jurisdiction of the Municipal Court in a summary manner without a jury unless
jury trial is demanded by the accused.
   (B)   Any person to be tried in the Municipal Court may, prior to trial,
demand a jury trial. The jury shall be composed of six persons drawn from the
qualified electors of the city in the manner prescribed by law. The right to a
jury trial shall be deemed to have been waived unless demand is made by the
person prior to trial.
   (C)   Trial shall be held within 30 days after arrest of an accused or at
such time as may be agreed upon, in which event the trial shall be deferred.
   (D)   The Municipal Judge shall have the same power as a magistrate to
compel the attendance of witnesses and require them to give evidence upon the
trial before them of any person.
(Prior Code, § 6-7) (Ord. 4-11-83, passed 4-11-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Demand for jury trial, see S.C. Code § 14-25-125
§ 35.07 RECORDING MUNICIPAL COURT TRIALS.
   (A)   Any party shall have the right to have the testimony given at a jury
trial in the Municipal Court taken stenographically or mechanically by a
reporter; provided, that nothing in this section shall operate to prevent a
party from mechanically recording the proceedings personally.
   (B)   The requesting party shall pay the charges of the reporter for taking
and transcribing if the testimony is recorded by a Municipal Court reporter.
(Prior Code, § 6-12) (Ord. 4-11-83, passed 4-11-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 14-25-195
§ 35.08 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any party shall have the right to appeal from the sentence or judgment
of the Municipal Court to the court of general sessions of this county. Notice
of intention to appeal, setting forth the grounds for appeal, shall be given in
writing and served on the Municipal Judge or the Clerk of the Municipal Court
within ten days after sentence is passed or judgment rendered, or the appeal
shall be deemed waived. The party appealing shall enter into a bond, payable to
the city, to appear and defend the appeal at the next term of the court of
general sessions, or shall pay the fine assessed.
   (B)   In the event of an appeal, the Municipal Judge shall make a return to
the court of general sessions, and the appeal shall be heard by the presiding
judge upon the return. The return of the Municipal Judge shall consist of a
written report of the charges preferred, the testimony, the proceedings, and
the sentence or judgment. When the testimony has been taken by a reporter, the
return shall include the reporter’s transcript of the testimony. The return
shall be filed with the Clerk of Court of general sessions, and the cause shall
be docketed for trial in the same manner as is now provided for appeals from
magistrate’s court. There shall be no trial de novo on any appeal from the
Municipal Court.
(Prior Code, § 6-13) (Ord. 4-11-83, passed 4-11-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code §§ 14-25-95 and 14-25-105
**** JURIES ****
§ 35.20 JURY COMMISSIONERS AND DUTIES.
   The members of the Council shall serve and act as jury commissioners for the
Municipal Court. Within the first 30 days of each year, the jury commissioners
shall prepare a jury box which shall contain two compartments, designated as
“A” and “B,” respectively.
(Prior Code, § 6-8) (Ord. 4-11-83, passed 4-11-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Jury commissioners and duties, see S.C. Code §§ 14-25-135 and 14-25-145
§ 35.21 COMPOSITION OF JURY LIST.
   The jury list of the city shall be composed of all the names on the official
list of qualified electors of the city furnished by the State Election
Commission each year, or copies from the official voter registration list of
the city. Compartment “A” of the jury box shall contain a separate ballot or
number for each name on the jury list. After compartment “A” has been filled
with names, the jury box shall be locked and kept in the custody of the
Municipal Court.
(Prior Code, § 6-9) (Ord. 4-11-83, passed 4-11-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 14-25-155
§ 35.22 SELECTION OF JURY; DISPOSITION OF NAMES.
   (A)   In all cases in the Municipal Court in which a jury is required, a
jury list shall be selected in the following manner: A person appointed by the
Municipal Judge who is not connected with the trial of the case for either
party shall draw out of compartment “A” of the jury box 30 names and the list
of names so drawn shall be delivered to each party or to the attorney for each
party.
   (B)   The names so drawn shall be placed in a box or hat and the individual
names randomly drawn out one at a time until six jurors and four alternates are
selected. If, for any reason, it is impossible to select sufficient jurors and
alternates from the names drawn, names shall be randomly drawn from compartment
“A” until sufficient jurors and alternates are selected.
   (C)   Each party shall have a maximum of six peremptory challenges as to
primary jurors and four peremptory challenges as to alternate jurors, and such
other challenges for cause as the Municipal Judge may permit. The parties shall
exercise peremptory challenges in advance of the trial date, and only persons
selected to serve and alternates shall be summoned for the trial.
   (D)   Upon the adjournment of the Municipal Court, the Clerk of Municipal
Court shall take the names or numbers of the jurors who appeared and shall
return these ballots or numbers to compartment “B” of the jury box, and the
ballots or numbers corresponding to the names of the jurors who were unable to
appear or who were excused by the Municipal Judge shall be returned to
compartment “A” of the jury box. When all names or numbers in compartment “A”
have been exhausted, the names or numbers from compartment “B” shall be
returned to compartment “A” and thereafter juries shall continue to be drawn
therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 6-10) (Ord. 4-11-83, passed 4-11-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code §§ 14-25-165 and 14-25-175
§ 35.23 FAILURE OF JUROR TO APPEAR.
   Any juror who, being duly summoned, shall neglect or refuse to appear in
obedience to any summons issued by the Municipal Court, and shall not within 48
hours render to the Municipal Judge a sufficient reason for such delinquency,
may be punished for contempt.
(Prior Code, § 6-11) (Ord. 4-11-83, passed 4-11-1983)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code § 14-25-185
CHAPTER 36: LAW ENFORCEMENT AND PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Police Department
   
36.01   Police authorized to make arrests within three miles of corporate
limits
**** POLICE DEPARTMENT ****
§ 36.01 POLICE AUTHORIZED TO MAKE ARRESTS WITHIN THREE MILES OF CORPORATE
LIMITS.
   City police may make arrests of all offenders against the municipal
ordinances and statutes of the state committed within the corporate limits at
any place within a radius of three miles of the corporate limits, with or
without a warrant, when such police authorities are in pursuit of such
offenders.
(Prior Code, § 6-14)
CHAPTER 37: FINANCES AND TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
37.001   Fiscal year
   
37.002   Special subscriptions, donations to be approved by Council
   
37.003   Permanent improvements, capital investments to be approved by Council
   
37.004   Payment of bills and claims before Council approval
Purchasing
   
37.015   Purchasing agent; designation, specified duties
   
37.016   Formal contract procedure
   
37.017   Bidding; competitive, required exception
   
37.018   Award to lowest bidder; advertising, when required
   
37.019   Sealed; procedure
   
37.020   Financial interest of city official, employees prohibited
   
37.021   Stock reports
   
37.022   Surplus stock
   
37.023   Supplies unsuitable for public use, sale, exchange
   
37.024   Gifts, rebates
   
37.025   Cooperative purchasing
Taxation of Property
   
37.040   Imposition of tax
   
37.041   Basis of value for ad valorem taxation
   
37.042   Assessed valuation to be entered on tax book; additional alterations
   
37.043   When taxes due, payable; delinquency charges
   
37.044   Assessments and taxes to constitute lien
   
37.045   When lien attaches
   
37.046   City Council to constitute investigating board; duties prescribed
   
37.047   Tax collector; appointment, general duties, bond
   
37.048   Use of proceeds
   
37.049   Operation of motor vehicles on which property taxes are due on streets
of city prohibited
   
37.050   Duty of Clerk and Treasurer when taxed property to be moved from city
   
37.051   Sale of property returned delinquent
   
37.052   Certain city officers vested with power to collect delinquent taxes
   
37.053   Execution against defaulting taxpayer
   
37.054   Clerk and Treasurer to list tax executions
   
37.055   Uncollectible executions
   
37.056   Form of tax executions and warrants
   
37.057   Notice to mortgages, compliance with state law required
   
37.058   Seizure, sale pursuant to state law
   
37.059   Settlement with City Clerk and Treasurer after sale
   
37.060   Time for payment of purchase price, passage of title
   
37.061   Purchase of land by city
   
37.062   Form of tax deed
   
37.063   Tax deed as evidence of title, regularity of proceedings
   
37.064   Election of alternate procedure for collection of taxes
Other Taxation
   
37.075   Local hospitality tax
 
   
37.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Board of Commissioners of Public Works, see §
33.15
Turning over money by outgoing Council member, see §
30.09
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 37.001 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the city shall begin July 1 of each year and end on June
31 of the new year.
(Prior Code, § 8-1)
§ 37.002 SPECIAL SUBSCRIPTIONS, DONATIONS TO BE APPROVED BY COUNCIL.
   All special subscriptions and donations by the city must be approved by the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 8-2)
§ 37.003 PERMANENT IMPROVEMENTS, CAPITAL INVESTMENTS TO BE APPROVED BY COUNCIL.
   All permanent improvements or capital investments shall be authorized by
vote of the City Council, and all administration and operation expenses shall
be approved by the Council at each regular meeting.
(Prior Code, § 8-3)
§ 37.004 PAYMENT OF BILLS AND CLAIMS BEFORE COUNCIL APPROVAL.
   It shall be unlawful for the Mayor, any member of Council, any department
head, any clerk, or any employee to pay any debt, bill, claim, or obligation
whatsoever against the city or obligation against the city whatsoever which is
not in the budget or in excess of $2,000 before the same shall have been
approved or authorized by a majority of those members present at a regular or
special session of Council.
(Prior Code, § 8-4) Penalty, see §
37.999
**** PURCHASING ****
§ 37.015 PURCHASING AGENT; DESIGNATION, SPECIFIED DUTIES.
   (A)   The Mayor, Clerk and Treasurer, and the Council member serving as
department head, and the City Administrator, shall be the general purchasing
committee for the city.
   (B)   The purchasing committee and the purchasing agent shall herein and in
the future be deemed the same.
   (C)   The purchasing agent shall be responsible for:
      (1)   The purchase of supplies, materials, and equipment and contractual
services required by an office, department, or agency of the city government;
      (2)   Establishing written specifications, whenever practicable, for
supplies, materials, and equipment required by an office, department, or agency
of the city government; and
      (3)   Obtaining as full and open competition as possible on all
purchases, contracts, and sales.
(Prior Code, § 8-20) (Ord. 10-10-83, passed 10-10-1983; Ord. 12-19-22, passed
12-19-2022)
§ 37.016 FORMAL CONTRACT PROCEDURE.
   All supplies and contractual services, except as otherwise provided herein,
when the estimated cost thereof shall exceed $25,000, shall be purchased by
formal, written contract from the lowest responsible bidder, after due notice
inviting proposals, and shall require prior approval of the City Council. No
contract or purchase shall be subdivided to avoid the requirements of this
section. All sales of personal property which has become obsolete or unusable,
when the estimated value shall exceed $5,000, shall be sold by formal written
contract or at a public auction to the highest bidder, after due notice
inviting proposals and bidders, and shall require prior approval of City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 8-21) (Ord. 10-10-83, passed 10-10-1983; Ord. 12-19-22, passed
12-19-2022)
§ 37.017 BIDDING; COMPETITIVE, REQUIRED EXCEPTION.
   (A)   For purchases or contracts for supplies, materials, equipment, or
services under $10,000, competitive bidding shall not be a mandatory obligation
of the Purchasing Agent, nor shall the Purchasing Agent be required to obtain
written quotes or to receive prior approval of the City Council.
   (B)   For purchases or contracts between $10,000 and $25,000, before any
purchases or contracts for supplies, materials, equipment, or services are
made, the Purchasing Agent shall give ample opportunity for competitive
bidding, but prior approval of the City Council shall not be required.
Purchases or contracts from $10,000 to $25,000 shall require written quotes
whenever possible, but written quotes shall not be mandatory. Notwithstanding
the above, the Purchasing Agent may purchase supplies, materials, equipment, or
services without securing competitive quotations if the prices are considered
reasonable. If products or services are available to the general public in the
commercial market place or are otherwise considered reasonable by the
Purchasing Agent, then the Purchasing Agent may acquire those products or
services without a written quote and without competitive bidding.
   (C)   Competitive bidding shall be encouraged for all contracts, purchases,
or sales. However, in the event of an emergency affecting the public welfare,
health, or safety, the provisions of this section shall not apply. A full
report of the circumstances of an emergency purchase shall be filed by the
Purchasing Agent with the City Council and shall be entered into the minutes of
the Council.
(Prior Code, § 8-22) (Ord. 10-10-83, passed 10-10-1983; Ord. 12-19-22, passed
12-19-2022)
§ 37.018 AWARD TO LOWEST BIDDER; ADVERTISING, WHEN REQUIRED.
   All contracts for city improvements, materials, equipment, or services
costing more than $25,000 shall be awarded to the lowest bidder of quality
after publication in a newspaper of general circulation and/or after
advertising in the State Business Opportunities (SCBO). Low bids may be
rejected if the Council deems there is a quality concern. The city reserves the
right to reject any bid that it deems is not in the best interest of the city
(see § 37.019). The newspaper notice required herein shall include a general
description of the articles or services to be purchased, shall state where bid
blanks and specifications may be secured, and the time and place for opening
bids.
(Prior Code, § 8-23) (Ord. 10-10-83, passed 10-10-1983; Ord. 12-19-22, passed
12-19-2022)
§ 37.019 SEALED; PROCEDURE.
   Procedure for sealed bid shall be as follows:
   (A)   Sealing. Bids shall be submitted to the Purchasing Agent securely
sealed in an envelope, and shall be identified on the envelope in accordance
with bid instructions.
   (B)   Opening. Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place stated
in the public notices.
   (C)   Tabulation. A tabulation of all bids received shall be available for
public inspection.
   (D)   Rejection of bids. The Purchasing Agent shall have the authority to
reject all bids, parts of all bids, or all bids for any one or more supplies or
contractual services included in the proposed contract when the public interest
will be served thereby.
   (E)   Bidders in default to city. The Purchasing Agent shall not accept the
bid of a vendor or contractor who is delinquent in payment of taxes, license,
or other moneys due the city.
   (F)   Award of contract.
      (1)   Authority in agent. Purchasing Agent shall have the authority to
award contracts within the purview of this subchapter; provided, however, that
contracts in excess of $25,000 shall not be awarded without prior approval of
the City Council.
      (2)   Lowest responsible bidder. Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest
responsible bidder. In determining the lowest responsible bidder, in addition
to the price, the Purchasing Agent shall consider:
         (a)   The ability, capacity, and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract or provide the service required;
         (b)   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the
service promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
         (c)   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience, and
efficiency of the bidder;
         (d)   The quality of performance of previous contracts or services;
         (e)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract or services;
         (f)   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the
bidder to perform the contract or provide the service;
         (g)   The quality, availability, and adaptability of the supplies or
contractual services to the particular use required;
         (h)   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and
service for the use of the subject of the contract; and
         (i)   The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid.
   (G)   Award to other than low bidder. When the award is not given to the
lowest bidder, a full and complete statement of the reasons for placing the
order elsewhere shall be prepared by the Purchasing Agent and filed with the
papers relating to the transaction and held for a period of no less than 12
months.
   (H)   Tie bids; local vendors. If all bids received are for the same total
amount or unit price, quality and service being equal, the contract shall be
awarded to the local bidder. If two or more such bids are submitted by local
bidders, the Purchasing Agent shall award the contract to one of the local tie
bidders by drawing lots in public. If local bidders are not involved in the tie
bids, the Purchasing Agent shall award the contract to one of the outside tie
bidders by drawing lots in public. The Purchasing Agent, local bidders, and
vendors should bear in mind, however, that to award a contract to a local
vendor where such local bidder is not the lowest responsible bidder, or where
price, quality, and service are not equal, is to give preference to one minute
segment of the citizenry against the best interest of the community as a whole.
   (I)   Performance bonds. The Purchasing Agent shall have the authority to
require a performance bond, before entering into a contract, in such form and
amount as such Agent shall find reasonably necessary to protect the best
interest of the city.
   (J)   Payment bond/labor and material bond. The Purchasing Agent may require
a payment bond and a labor and material bond before entering into a contract,
in such form and amount as such Agent shall deem necessary to protect the best
interest of the city.
(Ord. 10-10-83, passed 10-10-1983; Ord. 12-19-22, passed 12-19-2022)
§ 37.020 FINANCIAL INTEREST OF CITY OFFICIAL, EMPLOYEES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   No member of the City Council or any officer or employee of the
city shall have a financial interest in any contract or in the sale to the city
or to a contractor supplying the city of any land or rights or interests in any
land, material, supplies, or services; except when a majority of the City
Council determines such exception is in the best interest of the city.
      (2)   Provided, that no Council member whose interest is involved shall
vote on the question.
   (B)   Any willful violation of this section shall constitute malfeasance in
office, and any officer or employee of the city found guilty thereof shall
thereby forfeit the office or position.
   (C)   Any violation of this section with the knowledge, express or implied,
of the person contracting with the city shall render the contract voidable by
the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 8-25) (Ord. 10-10-83, passed 10-10-1983) Penalty, see §
37.999
§ 37.021 STOCK REPORTS.
   All Council members in charge of their respective departments of the city
government shall submit to the purchasing agent, at such times and in such form
as the purchasing agent shall prescribe, reports showing stocks of all supplies
which are no longer used or which have become obsolete, worn out, or scrapped.
(Prior Code, § 8-26) (Ord. 10-10-83, passed 10-10-1983)
§ 37.022 SURPLUS STOCK.
   The purchasing agent shall have authority to transfer surplus stock to other
offices, departments, or agencies of the city government.
(Prior Code, § 8-27)
§ 37.023 SUPPLIES UNSUITABLE FOR PUBLIC USE, SALE, EXCHANGE.
   (A)   The purchasing agent shall have the authority to sell all supplies
which have become unsuitable for public use, or to exchange the same for, or
trade-in the same, on new supplies.
   (B)   Such sales shall be made to the highest bidder, and in conformance
with §§
37.016 through
37.019.
   (C)   All moneys received from such sales shall be paid into the appropriate
fund of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-28) (Ord. 10-10-83, passed 10-10-1983)
§ 37.024 GIFTS, REBATES.
   The purchasing agent and every officer and employee of the city are
expressly prohibited from accepting, directly or indirectly, from any person to
whom any purchase order or contract is, or might be, awarded, any rebate, gift,
money, or anything of value whatsoever, except where given for the use and
benefit of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-29) (Ord. 10-10-83, passed 10-10-1983)
§ 37.025 COOPERATIVE PURCHASING.
   (A)   The purchasing agent shall have authority to join with other units of
government in cooperative purchasing plans when the best interests of the city
would be served thereby.
   (B)   Provided, that the purchasing agent of the city is given the authority
to make purchases of supplies and equipment through the property division of
the State Budget and Control Board, without the formality of publication and
receiving competitive bids.
(Prior Code, § 8-30) (Ord. 10-10-83, passed 10-10-1983)
**** TAXATION OF PROPERTY ****
§ 37.040 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (A)   The City Council shall impose, by ordinance, an annual tax at such
rate, in its discretion, as will yield an amount necessary for the general
purposes of the city, not exceeding the limit permitted by law.
   (B)   Such tax shall be levied by Council on the property within the
corporate limits as assessed for taxation for county and state purposes as
provided in this chapter.
   (C)   Such tax rate shall remain the same from year to year unless changed
by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 8-40)
Statutory reference:
   Levy by local fiscal authorities, see the Constitution of South Carolina,
Art. X, § 13
   Municipal taxation generally, see S.C. Code § 5-21-110 et seq.
   Power of municipalities to levy and collect taxes, see the Constitution of
South Carolina Art. X, § 5
   Power of municipality to assess taxes, see the Constitution of South
Carolina, Art. VIII, § 6
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Acts p. 487
§ 37.041 BASIS OF VALUE FOR AD VALOREM TAXATION.
   The basis of value for taxation of real estate, personal property, stock in
trade, or other taxable property within the city shall be taken from the books
of the Auditor and Tax Assessor of the county, and such assessment shall be the
same as levied by the County Auditor and Tax Assessor in any particular
calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 8-41)
§ 37.042 ASSESSED VALUATION TO BE ENTERED ON TAX BOOK; ADDITIONAL ALTERATIONS.
   The Clerk and Treasurer shall enter the assessed valuation, fixed as
provided in the preceding section, upon such officer’s tax books and thereafter
shall make only such alterations on such books as may be directed by a
supplemental tax return issued by the County Auditor and Tax Assessor.
(Prior Code, § 8-42)
§ 37.043 WHEN TAXES DUE, PAYABLE; DELINQUENCY CHARGES.
   (A)   All taxes for the year shall be due and payable on October 1 in each
year.
   (B)   Taxes paid on or before October 15 of each year will be subject to a
discount of 2%.
   (C)   Taxes paid from October 15 through October 31 in each year shall be
subject to a discount of 1%.
   (D)   Taxes paid from November 1 through December 31 in each year shall be
subject to neither discount nor penalty.
   (E)   Taxes paid during January of each year shall be subject to a penalty
of 1%; taxes paid during the month of February of each year shall be subject to
a penalty of 2%; taxes paid during the month of March of each year shall be
subject to a penalty of 3%; taxes paid during the period April 1 to April 15 of
each year shall be subject to a penalty of 7%; and on all taxes paid on or
after April 15 of each year, executions shall be issued as provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 8-43)
§ 37.044 ASSESSMENTS AND TAXES TO CONSTITUTE LIEN.
   The taxes, assessments, license taxes, and penalties legally assessed shall
constitute a lien on the property upon which the same were made until paid in
full, which lien shall be paramount to all other liens, except liens for county
and state taxes.
(Prior Code, § 8-44)
§ 37.045 WHEN LIEN ATTACHES.
   (A)   As soon as any property within the city is listed with the Auditor and
Tax Assessor of the county for taxation, such tax assessment shall immediately
become a lien on such property.
   (B)   The lien for unpaid taxes on personal property shall also attach to
any personal property subsequently acquired by the delinquent taxpayer.
(Prior Code, § 8-45)
§ 37.046 CITY COUNCIL TO CONSTITUTE INVESTIGATING BOARD; DUTIES PRESCRIBED.
   (A)   The City Council shall constitute a board for investigating all
matters relating to the assessment and listing of property for taxation, or for
the relief of taxpayers, and it shall be the duty of Council to see that no
property in the city escapes proper assessment and taxation.
   (B)   In case it shall be discovered by the Council that there is real or
personal property within the city which has not been returned, assessed, or
listed for taxation, or is listed on the County Auditor’s books as being
outside of the city or is improperly assessed, or is listed in the name of the
wrong person or is a double entry, or is listed through error as being in the
city, or in case any other irregularity appears or exists, it shall be the duty
of the Council to forthwith report, or cause to be reported, the same to the
County Auditor, or other county or state officials, to the end that no property
properly liable for city taxes shall escape taxation by the city, or its proper
assessment or listing, or shall be improperly taxed.
(Prior Code, § 8-46)
§ 37.047 TAX COLLECTOR; APPOINTMENT, GENERAL DUTIES, BOND.
   (A)   (1)   Appointment duties. The City Council shall appoint a Tax
Collector whose duty it shall be to check places of business in the city with
reference to the payment of licenses and to collect all delinquent taxes for
which executions have been delivered to such Tax Collector by the Clerk and
Treasurer.
      (2)   Bond. Before entering upon the discharge of the duties of the
office, the Tax Collector shall, if required by the Council, enter into a bond
payable to the city in such amount as shall be fixed or approved by the
Council, and in a bonding company duly authorized and licensed to do business
within the state, for the faithful performance of such collector’s duties. The
city shall pay the premium of such bond.
(Prior Code, § 8-47)
   (B)   The Tax Collector shall render daily, to the Clerk and Treasurer, a
complete account of all moneys collected during the preceding day and shall at
that time turn over all such moneys to the Clerk and Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 8-48)
   (C)   All taxes for the year shall be collected by the Clerk and Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 8-49)
§ 37.048 USE OF PROCEEDS.
   The proceeds of the annual property tax levy, together with other income of
the city, shall be used for general municipal purposes, to pay all current
indebtedness, and to pay the principal and interest on outstanding bonds or
coupons of the city which may become due and payable during the fiscal year.
(Prior Code, § 8-50)
§ 37.049 OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES ON WHICH PROPERTY TAXES ARE DUE ON STREETS
OF CITY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any resident of the city to own or operate
within the corporate limits of the city or upon the public streets or ways of
the city a motor vehicle on which personal property taxes due to the city are
delinquent and unpaid.
   (B)   Personal property taxes assessed against any motor vehicle owned by
any resident of the city shall be delinquent when the same are past due and
unpaid and have gone into execution as provided for by the ordinances of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 8-51) Penalty, see §
37.999
§ 37.050 DUTY OF CLERK AND TREASURER WHEN TAXED PROPERTY TO BE MOVED FROM CITY.
   In case any property within the city listed with the County Auditor for
taxation is about to be taken or removed from the jurisdiction of the city
before taxes are due and payable for any year, the Clerk and Treasurer shall
immediately issue an execution on such property and the Tax Collector shall
proceed to collect the taxes due on such property.
(Prior Code, § 8-52)
§ 37.051 SALE OF PROPERTY RETURNED DELINQUENT.
   (A)   All real property returned delinquent by the Clerk and Treasurer, upon
which the taxes shall not be paid by distress or sale of personal property, or
otherwise, shall be seized and sold as provided by law.
   (B)   The distress and sale of personal property shall not be a condition
precedent to seizure and sale of any real property hereunder.
(Prior Code, § 8-53)
§ 37.052 CERTAIN CITY OFFICERS VESTED WITH POWER TO COLLECT DELINQUENT TAXES.
   The Chief of Police, Clerk and Treasurer, and Tax Collector are hereby
invested with all the rights, powers, and privileges, and they are hereby
charged with all the duties of the officers designated for the enforcement and
collection of delinquent taxes by the Constitution and laws of the state and
all amendments thereto.
(Prior Code, § 8-54)
§ 37.053 EXECUTION AGAINST DEFAULTING TAXPAYER.
   Immediately upon the expiration of the time allowed by ordinance for the
payment of taxes in any year, the Clerk and Treasurer shall issue, in the name
of the city under the seal of the corporation, a warrant or execution against
any defaulting taxpayer in the city, signed by such Clerk and Treasurer in such
person’s official capacity, directed to the Chief of Police requiring and
commanding such officer to levy the same by distress and sale of so much of the
defaulting taxpayer’s estate, real or personal, or both, as may be sufficient
to satisfy the taxes or assessments due by such defaulter, specifying therein
the aggregate amount of all such taxpayer’s taxes or assessments due the city,
including fines and charges allowed on executions, as set forth in S.C. Code §
12-49-740, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 8-55)
§ 37.054 CLERK AND TREASURER TO LIST TAX EXECUTIONS.
   The Clerk and Treasurer shall prepare, in triplicate, an itemized list of
all tax executions turned over to the Chief of Police, which list shall set
forth the name, year, and amount of each execution, and in addition, the Clerk
and Treasurer shall submit the duplicate of the same to the Chief of Police,
the triplicate to the Mayor, and the original to be retained by the Clerk and
Treasurer, signed by the Chief of Police, showing that the Chief of Police has
received the listed executions.
(Prior Code, § 8-56)
§ 37.055 UNCOLLECTIBLE EXECUTIONS.
   Tax executions found to be uncollectible by the Chief of Police shall be
returned to the Clerk and Treasurer’s office, and the Chief of Police shall be
duly credited for such amounts, the same to be entered on each list.
(Prior Code, § 8-57)
§ 37.056 FORM OF TAX EXECUTIONS AND WARRANTS.
   Tax executions or tax warrants shall be in substantially the same form as
that provided in S.C. Code §§ 12-49-410 through 12-49-550, as amended, for the
collection of delinquent taxes owed to the state or county.
(Prior Code, § 8-58)
§ 37.057 NOTICE TO MORTGAGES, COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW REQUIRED.
   Whenever any real estate is levied upon for taxes by the Chief of Police, it
shall be the Chief’s duty, before proceeding to advertise the same for sale as
now provided by law, to give 20 days’ written notice of such levy to the owner
of each mortgage contained on the list filed with such Tax Collector in the
manner provided for under S.C. Code §§ 12-49-220 through 12-49-290, as amended,
and the Chief of Police and Clerk and Treasurer shall follow the procedure set
forth in such sections of such code.
(Prior Code, § 8-59)
§ 37.058 SEIZURE, SALE PURSUANT TO STATE LAW.
   Under and by virtue of the warrant or execution provided for in this
chapter, the Chief of Police shall seize and take exclusive possession of, and
shall sell so much of, the defaulting taxpayer’s estate, real or personal, or
both, as may be necessary to raise the sums of money named therein, and the
charges thereon, in the manner provided for in sections S.C. Code §§ 12-49-410
through 12-49-550, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 8-60)
§ 37.059 SETTLEMENT WITH CITY CLERK AND TREASURER AFTER SALE.
   The Chief of Police shall make immediate settlement with the Clerk and
Treasurer, and pay over to the Clerk and Treasurer all funds collected from the
sale of property for taxes and due to the city, and take Clerk and Treasurer’s
receipt therefor.
(Prior Code, § 8-61)
§ 37.060 TIME FOR PAYMENT OF PURCHASE PRICE, PASSAGE OF TITLE.
   The purchaser at any tax sale shall pay the amount of such purchaser’s bid
to the Chief of Police immediately after the closing of the sale, and the Chief
of Police shall give to such purchaser a receipt for the purchase money, but
title shall not be made until the expiration of 12 months from the date if such
sale and then only if the property sold be not redeemed as provided in S.C.
Code §§ 12-49-400 through 12-49-550, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 8-62)
§ 37.061 PURCHASE OF LAND BY CITY.
   (A)   In case there be no bid equal in amount to the delinquent taxes,
together with all penalties, costs, or charges named in the warrant or
execution against the property, the Clerk and Treasurer shall buy the land for
the city as the actual purchaser thereof, for the amount of such taxes,
penalties, costs, and charges.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall thereupon execute title to the city in the
same manner as to any other purchaser, and shall put the city or its authorized
officers or agents in possession of the premises as provided by law.
   (C)   The land so sold to the city shall be treated as an asset of the city.
(Prior Code, § 8-63)
§ 37.062 FORM OF TAX DEED.
   The form of the deed to real estate given by the Chief of Police to the
purchaser at a tax sale shall be substantially the same form as the title deed
given by sheriffs to purchasers at a tax sale for state or county taxes.
(Prior Code, § 8-64)
§ 37.063 TAX DEED AS EVIDENCE OF TITLE, REGULARITY OF PROCEEDINGS.
   All deeds of conveyance made by the Chief of Police under the authority of
this subchapter, whether executed to the city or to any other person, shall be
held and taken as prima facie evidence as of a good title in the holder, that
all proceedings have been regular and that all requirements of ordinances and
the law have been completely complied with.
(Prior Code, § 8-65)
§ 37.064 ELECTION OF ALTERNATE PROCEDURE FOR COLLECTION OF TAXES.
   (A)   The City Council hereby elects to exercise any of the powers granted
by S.C. Code § 12-51, as amended, and adopt the same and enact the same into
law by reference thereto as if fully set forth herein.
   (B)   Specific references are made to S.C. Code §§ 12-51-10 through 12-51-
170, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 8-66) (Ord. 12-12-83, passed - -)
**** OTHER TAXATION ****
§ 37.075 LOCAL HOSPITALITY TAX.
   (A)   Authority. This tax is enacted pursuant to the S.C. Code §§ 6-1-700
through 6-1-770, which provides in part that a local governing body may impose,
by ordinance, a local hospitality tax, not to exceed 2% of the charges for food
and beverages sold in establishments with the city.
   (B)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   This local hospitality tax is enacted to preserve the general
health, safety, and welfare of the general public within the city, and to
specifically improve and increase tourism-related activities and facilities and
to enhance the quality of life in the city for its citizens and its visitors.
The revenue generated by the local accommodations tax must be used exclusively
for the following purposes:
         (a)   Tourism-related buildings, including, but not limited to, civic
centers, coliseums, and aquariums;
         (b)   Cultural, recreational, or historic facilities;
         (c)   Highways, roads, streets, and bridges providing access to
tourist destinations;
         (d)   Advertisements and promotions related to tourism development; or
         (e)   Water and sewer infrastructure to serve tourism-related demand.
      (2)   Further, an amount not to exceed 50% of the revenue in the
preceding fiscal year of the local hospitality tax may be used for the
operation and maintenance of divisions (B)(1)(a) through (B)(1)(e) above,
including police, fire protection, emergency medical services, and emergency-
preparedness operations directly attendant to those facilities.
   (C)   Imposition of local hospitality tax. A uniform tax equal to 2% is
hereby imposed on the gross proceeds derived from the sale of prepared meals
and beverages sold in establishments or sales of prepared meals and beverages
sold in establishments licensed for on-premises consumption of alcoholic
beverages, beer, or wine, and is imposed on every person engaged in the
business of furnishing food and beverage services, whether dine in or take out,
within the city. In addition, the local hospitality tax shall be imposed on all
food and beverages prepared or modified by convenience stores, fast food
service outlets, or grocery stores within the city.
   (D)   Accounting for local hospitality tax. All proceeds derived from the
local hospitality tax must be kept in a separate fund segregated from the
city’s General Fund. This Fund shall be known as the Local Hospitality Fund.
   (E)   Payment of local hospitality tax. Payment of the local hospitality tax
shall be the responsibility of the consumer of the services described in
division (C) above. This tax shall be paid at the time of the delivery of the
services or items to which the tax applies and shall be collected by the
provider or seller of the service(s) or item(s).
   (F)   Remittance to the city. The taxes collected by the seller or provider
of the services or items, as required in division (E) above, shall be remitted
to the City Clerk and Treasurer as set forth herein, along with such return or
form as may be established by the City Clerk and Treasurer for such purpose.
When the estimated amount of average tax is more than $50 per month, that
seller or provider shall remit the amount due on a monthly basis. When the
estimated amount of average tax is $25 to $50 per month, that seller or
provider shall remit on a quarterly basis. When the estimated amount is less
than $25 per month, that seller or provider shall remit on an annual basis.
   (G)   Payment due dates. Taxes and required reports shall be submitted to
the City Clerk and Treasurer by the twentieth day of the month following the
due date of the tax payment, and shall cover sales of the previous month,
quarter, and/or year depending on the seller’s monthly average tax. Any taxes
not timely remitted shall be subject to a penalty of 5% of the unpaid tax for
each month or portion thereof after the due date until paid. The failure to
collect from patrons the tax imposed by this section shall not relieve any
establishment subject to this section from making the required remittance.
   (H)   Expending of future proceeds. As part of the annual budget process,
the Mayor shall report to City Council regarding the annual revenue received
from this tax and the annual expenditures.
(Ord. 06152015-3, passed 6-15-2015) Penalty, see §
37.999
§ 37.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
37.075 shall be deemed guilty of an offense and shall be subject to punishment
under this chapter upon conviction. Each day of violation shall be considered a
separate offense. Punishment for violation shall not relieve the offender of
liability for delinquent taxes, penalties, and costs provided for herein.
(Ord. 06152015-3, passed 6-15-2015)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SOLID WASTE
      
53.   SEWAGE
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES
Section
   
50.01   Discontinuance of service for non-payment of bill; re-connection charge
   
50.02   Interfering, tampering with utility property appurtenances
   
50.03   Parcels of land partly in, partly outside of the city limits
§ 50.01 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE FOR NON-PAYMENT OF BILL; RE-CONNECTION
CHARGE.
   If any bill for utilities, sanitation service, fire protection, or other
service provided by the city shall remain unpaid for 60 days after the bill is
rendered, all services to such customer may be discontinued until such customer
has paid in full such customers’ past due bill, and has paid a reconnection
charge of $50. This procedure shall be additional to all other remedies for
non-payment.
(Prior Code, § 11-6)
§ 50.02 INTERFERING, TAMPERING WITH UTILITY PROPERTY APPURTENANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere or tamper with any of the
property or appurtenances belonging to, or controlled by, the New Ellenton
Commission of Public Works, or other body charged with the duties of the New
Ellenton Commission of Public Works, without first having obtained the proper
permit so to do from authorized representatives of the Board.
(Prior Code, § 11-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03 PARCELS OF LAND PARTLY IN, PARTLY OUTSIDE OF THE CITY LIMITS.
   Parcels located partly in and partly outside of the
city limits, for which city taxes and city water rates apply, shall be
considered “in the City of New Ellenton” for purposes of providing trash,
sewer, police, fire, and other applicable city services and rates.
(Ord. 9272011, passed 10-17-2011)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Setting of rates, charges, fees
   
51.02   Application for service
   
51.03   Tap fees
   
51.04   Water deposit required on rental property
   
51.05   Monthly rate; schedules; due dates
   
51.06   Opening fire hydrants
   
51.07   Unlawful use of water
   
51.08   Diversion of water
   
51.09   Use of wells and/or privately owned water systems
   
51.10   Emergency powers
Drought Management Plan; Response
   
51.25   Purpose, intent
   
51.26   Definitions
   
51.27   Drought management plan
   
51.28   Drought response
 
   
51.99   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 51.01 SETTING OF RATES, CHARGES, FEES.
   The New Ellenton Commission of Public Works shall prescribe all water rates,
charges, and tap fees, subject to the approval of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 11-20)
§ 51.02 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   Before any new water service connection shall be made, the person desiring
water service shall make application in the office of the New Ellenton
Commission of Public Works and shall pay the required deposit.
(Prior Code, § 11-21)
§ 51.03 TAP FEES.
   (A)   The New Ellenton Commission of Public Works is hereby authorized to
charge and collect as tap fees, the fees prescribed in the following schedule:
      (1)   Inside city limits tap fees.
 
Tap Size Fee
3/4”   $1,500
1”     $1,850
2”     $2,500
Notes to Table:
Please contact office for tap fees over 2”
 
      (2)   Outside city limits tap fees.
 
Tap Size Fee
3/4”   $2,250
1”     $2,775
2”     $3,750.50
Notes to Table:
Please contact office for tap fees over 2”
 
   (B)   Property located partially within the corporate limits of the city and
partially outside the corporate limits of the city shall be charged rates
applicable to property wholly outside the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 11-22) (Ord. 3-4-85, passed - -)
§ 51.04 WATER DEPOSIT REQUIRED ON RENTAL PROPERTY.
   In addition to the schedules set forth in §
51.03, the New Ellenton Commission of Public Works shall charge and collect the
sum of$200 as a water deposit on all rental property. Such deposit will cover
two billings for water and will allow for penalty.
(Prior Code, § 11-23) (Ord. 3-4-85, passed - -)
§ 51.05 MONTHLY RATE; SCHEDULES; DUE DATES.
   (A)   The New Ellenton Commission of Public Works is authorized to charge
and collect water rates and charges according to the following schedule:
Inside City Limits Water Rates
Tap Size Gallons Rate
Inside City Limits Water Rates
Tap Size      Gallons               Rate
3/4” and 5/80-3,000 gallons       $25.50 base rate
              4,000 gallons and up  $4 per 1,000 gallons
1”          0-4,000 gallons       $30 base rate
              5,000 gallons and up  $4 per 1,000 gallons
1 1/2”      0-4,000 gallons       $32 base rate
              5,000 gallons and up  $4 per 1,000 gallons
2”          0-6,000 gallons       $40 base rate
              7,000 gallons and up  $4 per 1,000 gallons
3”          0-10,000 gallons      $60 base rate
              11,000 gallons and up $4 per 1,000 gallons
4”          0-10,000 gallons      $110 base rate
              11,000 gallons and up $4 per 1,000 gallons
6”          0-12,000 gallons      $200 base rate
              13,000 gallons and up $4 per 1,000 gallons
Outside City Limits Water Rates
Tap Size Gallons Rate
Outside City Limits Water Rates
Tap Size      Gallons               Rate
3/4” and 5/80-3,000 gallons       $38.25 base rate
              4,000 gallons and up  $4 per 1,000 gallons
1”          0-4,000 gallons       $45 base rate
              5,000 gallons and up  $4 per 1,000 gallons
1 1/2”      0-4,000 gallons       $48 base rate
              5,000 gallons and up  $4 per 1,000 gallons
2”          0-6,000 gallons       $60 base rate
              7,000 gallons and up  $4 per 1,000 gallons
3”          0-10,000 gallons      $90 base rate
              11,000 gallons and up $4 per 1,000 gallons
4”          0-10,000 gallons      $165 base rate
              11,000 gallons and up $4 per 1,000 gallons
6”          0-12,000 gallons      $300 base rate
              13,000 gallons and up $4 per 1,000 gallons
 
   (B)   All water bills shall be due and payable on or before the twenty-fifth
day of each month.
(Prior Code, § 11-24)
(Ord. 3-4-85, passed - -)
§ 51.06 OPENING FIRE HYDRANTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not connected with the New Ellenton
Commission of Public Works, the Fire Department, or anybody charged with the
duties of the New Ellenton Commission of Public Works to interfere with or open
for any purpose whatever any of the fire hydrants on the mains of the
waterworks, except in case of fire.
(Prior Code, § 11-26) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 UNLAWFUL USE OF WATER.
   Any person who shall willfully and intentionally withdraw or cause to be
withdrawn water in any manner, and appropriate it to such person’s own use or
the use of any other person, or for purposes other than those specified, shall
be punished as set forth in §
51.99(B).
(Prior Code, § 11-27) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08 DIVERSION OF WATER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any customer receiving water service to
divert water to any other person. Any customer found to be diverting water
shall be given notice to discontinue such diversion by the New Ellenton
Commission of Public Works.
   (B)   If such diversion continues after notice, the Board of Commissioners
of Public Works is authorized to discontinue all services to the customer until
such customer has paid a reconnection charge of $100. Payment of the
reconnection fee shall not preclude future disconnections for continued
violations of this section.
(Prior Code, § 11-28) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 USE OF WELLS AND/OR PRIVATELY OWNED WATER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   The use of wells for irrigation purposes only is authorized within the
city limits. No well will be used for domestic use at any time.
   (B)   Property owners who are not provided water for domestic use by the
Commission of Public Works may maintain a well for domestic use and for
irrigation purposes.
   (C)   The Commission of Public Works and its designated representatives are
hereby given full authority to enforce this section by all appropriate
measures.
(Prior Code, § 11-29) (Ord. 1-22-2008, passed 1- -2008)
§ 51.10 EMERGENCY POWERS.
   (A)   In the event of mechanical failure or in the event of a water shortage
emergency declared by the city, county, state, or federal government, the New
Ellenton Commission of Public Works shall have the power, by order of
prohibition, to prohibit or limit the use of water service.
   (B)   Public notice of such prohibition or limit shall be given, including
the specific uses or times of use which are prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 11-30)
**** DROUGHT MANAGEMENT PLAN; RESPONSE ****
§ 51.25 PURPOSE, INTENT.
   The New Ellenton CPW understands the fundamental need to make efficient use
of the limited and valuable resource under its stewardship in order to protect
the public’s health and safety and environmental integrity. The purpose of this
subchapter is to establish a plan and procedures for managing water demand and
evaluating supply options before and during a drought-related water shortage.
The intent is to satisfy the requirements of the Drought Response Act of 2000
(S.C. §§ 49-23-10 et seq., as amended) with the goal of achieving the greatest
public benefit from domestic water use, sanitation, and fire protection, and to
provide water for other purposes in an equitable manner. Therefore, the New
Ellenton CPW has adopted this Drought Management Plan and provides the
regulations by which the New Ellenton CPW will manage and control its customer
water usage during various levels of a drought.
(Res. passed - -)
§ 51.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AESTHETIC WATER USE. Water use for ornamental or decorative purposes such as
fountains, reflecting pools, and waterfalls.
   COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL USE. Water use integral to the production of goods
and/or services by any establishment having profit as its primary aim.
   CONSERVATION. Reduction in water use to prevent depletion or waste of the
resource.
   CUSTOMER. Any person, company, or organization using finished water owned or
supplied by New Ellenton Commission of Public Works.
   DOMESTIC WATER USE. Water use for personal needs or household purposes, such
as drinking, bathing, heating, cooking, sanitation, or for cleaning a
residence, business, industry, or institution.
   DROUGHT ALERT PHASES. There are four drought alert phases to be determined
by the Drought Response Committee for the state. The four phases are:
      (l)   Incipient drought;
      (2)   Moderate drought;
      (3)   Severe drought; and
      (4)   Extreme drought.
   DROUGHT RESPONSE MANAGEMENT AREAS.
      (1)   There are four drought management areas corresponding to the major
river basins in the state. The four areas are:
         (a)   West or Savannah;
         (b)   Central or Santee;
         (c)   Northeast or Pee Dee; and
         (d)   Southern or Ashepoo, Combahee, and Edisto.
      (2)   In order to prevent overly broad response to drought conditions,
drought response measures shall be considered within each individual drought
management areas or within individual counties, as applicable.
   DROUGHT RESPONSE COMMITTEE. A committee composed of state and local
representatives created for the purpose of coordinating responses to water
supply shortages within the drought management areas and making recommendations
for action to the State Department of Natural Resources and/or the Governor.
The Committee is composed of state agency representatives from the State
Emergency Management Division of the Office of the Adjutant General, State
Department of Environmental Services, State Department of Agriculture, State
Forestry Commission, and the State Department of Natural Resources, as well as
local committees representing counties, municipalities, public service
districts, private water suppliers, agriculture, industry, domestic users,
regional councils of government, commissions of public works, power generation
facilities, special purpose districts, and soil and water conservation
districts.
   ESSENTIAL WATER USE. Water used specifically for firefighting, maintaining
in-stream flow requirements, and to satisfy federal, state, or local public
health and safety requirements.
   FINISHED WATER. Water distributed for use after treatment. The terms WATER
USE, WATER USER, and WATER CUSTOMER refer to finished water use unless
otherwise defined.
   INSTITUTIONAL WATER USE. Water used by government, public and private
educational institutions, churches and places of worship, water utilities, and
organizations within the public domain.
   IRRIGATION WATER USE. Water used to maintain gardens, trees, lawns, shrubs,
flowers, athletic fields, rights-of-way, and medians.
   NON-ESSENTIAL WATER USE. Categories of water use other than essential water
use. Examples of NON-ESSENTIAL WATER USE include landscape irrigation and the
washing of buildings, parking lots, automobiles, and the like.
   RESIDENTIAL EQUIVALENT UNIT (REU). An equivalency unit defined to be equal
to one single-family residence. New Ellenton CPW’s allocated water capacity
equals 300 gallons per day per REU.
   STATE DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES. The state agency with primacy to
implement the provisions of the Drought Response Act.
   WATER SUPPLY SHORTAGE. Lack of adequate, available water caused by drought
to meet normal demands.
(Res. passed - -)
§ 51.27 DROUGHT MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Introduction. To ensure that the Commission of Public Works, New
Ellenton adequately manages its water system during drought-related conditions,
an organized plan is necessary for system operation and reliability, proper
communications, effective coordination, and ultimate allocation of water use.
Prior planning, will compliment the Commission of Public Works ability to
respond to drought conditions and to enforce the related ordinance.
   (B)   Designation of Water System Drought Response Representative.
Administering a Drought Plan requires the skills needed to undertake a
comprehensive public information program and the judgment required to deal with
equity issues arising from enforcement of a mandatory program. Someone who has
these skills will be selected by the water system to manage the water system’s
program and serve as the principal contact for the news media as the system’s
Drought Response Representative. The Drought Response Representative for the
Commission of Public Works, New Ellenton is Daniel R. Lowe, 100 Main St. S. New
Ellenton, SC 29809 (803) 652-2862, dlowe@newellentoncpw.com.
   (C)   Description of water system layout. water sources, capabilities, and
yields. The Commission of Public Works, New Ellenton is located in the Savannah
Drought Response Management Area of the state. The system serves 3,500
customers from Talatha Church Road south to Highway 278. The system has two
300,00 gallons elevated storage tanks. The system’s water comes from three
ground water wells 450 feet deep into an underground source of water called the
Middendorf Aquifer. Well #1 is located on Boatner Street with a yield of 327.39
TGD. Well #2 is located on Oakridge Street with a yield of 327.39 TGD. Well #3
is located on Dry Branch Road with a yield of 327.39 TGD.Well #4 is located on
Darlington Drive with a yield of 327.39 TGD. The SCDES total permitted capacity
of the water system operated by the Commission of Public Works, New Ellenton is
478 million gallons yearly withdrawal.
   (D)   Identification of water system specific drought or water shortage
indicators. Operators of every water system must develop historical trends that
are valuable indicators of when a system’s ability to meet demand begins to
outpace supply. The Commission of Public Works has developed triggers for use
during drought or demand water shortages that describe when specific phases of
§
51.28 are implemented. The system triggers are as follows:
      (1)   Moderate drought phase.
         (a)   Elevated storage falls below 75% of total capacity;
         (b)   Average daily use greater than 75% of plant capacity for seven
consecutive days;
         (c)   Aquifer stabilized static level drops ten feet; and
         (d)   Drought Response Committee declaration.
      (2)   Severe drought phase.
         (a)   Elevated storage falls below 50% of total capacity;
         (b)   Average daily use greater than 95% of plant capacity for seven
consecutive days;
         (c)   Aquifer stabilized static level drops 20 feet; and
         (d)   Drought Response Committee declaration.
      (3)   Extreme drought phase.
         (a)   Elevated storage falls below 25% of total capacity;
         (b)   Average daily use greater than 100% of plant capacity for seven
consecutive days;
         (b)   Aquifer stabilized static level drops 30 feet; and
         (d)   Drought Response Committee declaration.
   (E)   Cooperative agreements and alternative water supply sources.
Successful drought management requires a comprehensive program by the water
utility. In many situations, administrative agreements are required with other
agencies to fully implement the Plan. Agreements with other water purveyors may
be necessary for alternative water supply sources. Other agreements that
strengthen conservation efforts by large users may be necessary. The Commission
of Public Works, New Ellenton identifies the following agreements that are in
place to facilitate the implementation of this Plan: The Commission of Public
Works supplies potable water to 3,500 customers. The only alternative water
supply source is an emergency tie-in with the City of Aiken. This agreement
states that the water is only to be used in an emergency in the event that
there is excess capacity available.
   (F)   Description of pre-drought planning efforts.
      (1)   Before the occurrence of a water supply shortage and the need to
implement the emergency provisions of the section, it is important that certain
pre-response measures have been taken with the aim of conserving the system’s
source of water, as well as the water distributed to the customer. In regard to
the conservation measures listed below, the Commission of Public Works, New
Ellenton has taken the following actions:
         (a)   Identification of all major water users in the system:
            1.   Country Inn & Suites;
            2.   Quick & Easy Car Wash;
            3.   Soaps & Suds Laundry;
            4.   Greendale Elementary School; and
            5.   KJ’s Supermarket.
         (b)   Identification of those users with whom there are conservation
agreements: N/A.
         (c)   A vigorous public education program is critical for achieving
substantial water use reductions. An effective public outreach program will
keep the public informed about the water supply situation, what actions will
mitigate drought emergency problems, and how well the public is doing in terms
of meeting the programs goals. Keeping the public involved, informed, and
participating in the decision-making process is key to implementing an
effective Drought Management Plan.
      (2)   The Commission of Public Works, New Ellenton’s goal is to promote
the wise use of our water resource. One major of the CPW is the rehabilitation
of water mains that may cause a problem. Our objective is to find the problem
areas before major line breaks that cause major water loss. Another area of
concern is maximizing efficiency of water delivered from the CPW to customers.
      (3)   The Commission of Public Works, New Ellenton has targeted four
community groups to accomplish its goals: Irrigation, residential, schools, and
commercial customers.
         (a)   Irrigation. Increasing the efficiency of landscape irrigation
has the most potential for reducing water consumption.
         (b)   Residential. Teaching customers how water is delivered, the cost
of water service, why water conservation is important, and how they can use
water more efficiently in their daily activities.
         (c)   Schools. Educate future citizens about water conservation.
         (d)   Commercial customers. The same principles apply to commercial as
residential. However, there may be some operations that are particularly high
in water usage that will be addressed with more targeted water saving methods.
      (4)   Methods to inform the public:
         (a)   Distribute information material;
         (b)   Get teachers involved in water conservation;
         (c)    Newspaper/online/CPW website; and
         (d)   Customer water bill postings.
   (G)   Description of capital planning and investment of system reliability
and demand forecasting.
      (1)   Water utilities routinely find that capital improvements to the
system strongly enhance their ability to get through times of drought. It is
important that water utilities aggressively plan and build for future needs.
The utility must continue to provide for system operation flexibility, improved
pumping and storage capacity, and new technologies to meet the demands of
tomorrow.
      (2)   The Commission of Public Works, New Ellenton started a major
upgrade in 2002. The project addressed a ten-year plan for development. The CPW
has erected two new 300,000 gallon tanks and a telemetry system to help keep a
better audit on water pumped as opposed to water billed. The CPW has also
installed new main lines in the project and abandoned many old ones.
(Res. passed - -)
§ 51.28 DROUGHT RESPONSE.
   (A)   Declaration of policy and authority. The objective of this section is
to establish authority, policy, and procedure by which the New Ellenton CPW
will take the proper actions to manage water demand during a drought-related
shortage. This section satisfies the requirements of the Drought Response Act
of 2000 and has the goal of achieving the greatest public benefit from limited
supplies of water needed for domestic water use, sanitation, and fire
protection, and of allocating water from other purposes in an equitable manner.
      (1)   This section outlines the actions to be taken for the conservation
of water supplied by the New Ellenton CPW. These actions are directed both
towards an overall reduction in water usage and the optimization of supply.
      (2)   To satisfy these goals, the New Ellenton CPW hereby adopts the
following regulations and restrictions on the delivery and consumption of
water. This section is hereby declared necessary for the protection of public
health, safety, and welfare and shall take effect upon its adoption by the New
Ellenton CPW.
      (3)   If it becomes necessary to conserve water in its service area due
to drought, the New Ellenton CPW is authorized to issue a proclamation that
existing conditions prevent fulfillment of the usual water-use demands. The
proclamation is an attempt to prevent depleting the water supply to the extent
that water used for human consumption, sanitation, fire protection, and other
essential needs becomes endangered.
      (4)   Immediately upon issuance of such a proclamation, regulations, and
restrictions set forth under this section shall become effective and remain in
effect until the water shortage has ended and the proclamation rescinded.
      (5)   Water uses that are regulated or prohibited under this section are
considered to be non-essential, and continuation of such use during times of
water supply shortages is deemed to constitute a waste of water, subjecting
offenders to penalties.
   (B)   Moderate drought phases. Upon notification by the Drought Response
Committee that a moderate drought condition is present and is expected to
persist, and upon determination by the New Ellenton CPW that a moderate water
supply shortage exists based on trigger levels, the New Ellenton CPW will seek
voluntary reductions on its customers in the use of water for all purposes and
voluntary reductions on using water during certain peak water demand periods.
Specifically, the goal during this phase is to achieve a reduction of 20% in
residential water use and 15% in other water uses such as commercial,
industrial, institutional, and irrigation; and a reduction in overall water use
of 15%. To accomplish this, the New Ellenton CPW will take the following
actions.
      (1)   Issue a proclamation to be released to local media, New Ellenton
CPW customers, and to the State Natural Resources Drought Information Center
that moderate drought conditions are present.
      (2)   Provide written notification to the State Department of Natural
Resources Drought Information Center and routinely publish in a newspaper of
general circulation in the service area of the water system the voluntary
conservation measures that the customers are requested to follow during
moderate drought conditions, including:
         (a)   Reduce residential water use to 50 gallons per person per day
and a maximum of 200 gallons per household per day;
         (b)   Eliminate the washing down of sidewalks, walkways, driveways,
parking lots, tennis courts, and other hard surface areas;
         (c)   Eliminate the washing down of buildings for purposes other than
immediate fire protection;
         (d)   Eliminate the flushing of gutters;
         (e)   Eliminate the domestic washing of motorbikes, boats, cars, and
the like;
         (f)   Eliminate the use of water to maintain fountains, reflection
ponds, and decorative water bodies for aesthetic or scenic purposes, except
where necessary to support aquatic life;
         (g)   Reduce watering of lawns, plants, trees, gardens, shrubbery, and
flora on private or public property to the minimum necessary. Encourage outdoor
watering to be done off-peak hours;
         (h)   Reduce the amount of watering from fire hydrants for
construction purposes, fire drills, or for any purposes other than firefighting
or flushing necessary to maintain water quality; and/or
         (i)   Limit normal water use by commercial and individual customers
including, but not limited to, the following:
            1.   Stop serving water in addition to another beverage routinely
in restaurants;
            2.   Stop maintaining water levels in scenic and recreational ponds
and lakes, except for the minimum amount required to support aquatic life; and
            3.   Cease water service to customers who have been given a ten-day
notice to repair one or more leaks and have failed to do so.
      (3)   Intensify maintenance efforts to identify and correct water leaks
in the distribution system.
      (4)   Cease to install new irrigation taps on the water system.
      (5)   Continue to encourage and educate customers to comply with
voluntary water conservation.
   (C)   Severe drought phase. Upon notification by the Drought Response
Committee that a severe drought condition is present and is expected to
persist, and upon determination by the New Ellenton CPW that a severe water
shortage exists, New Ellenton CPW will seek voluntary reduction in the use of
water for all purposes and mandatory restrictions on non-essential usage and
restrictions on times when certain water usage is allowed. Specifically, the
goal during this phase is to achieve a reduction of 25% in residential water
use, 20% in all other water use categories, and a reduction in overall water
use of 20%. To accomplish these goals, the New Ellenton CPW will take the
following actions.
      (1)   Issue a proclamation to be released to the local media, New
Ellenton CPW customers, and to the State Department of Natural Resources
Drought Information Center that severe drought conditions are present.
      (2)   Provide written notification to the State Department of Natural
Resources Drought Information Center and routinely publish in a newspaper of
general circulation in the service area of the water system voluntary
conservation measures and mandatory restrictions to be placed on the use of
water supplied by the utility, including:
         (a)   Voluntary reduction of residential water use by the utility’s
customers to 40 gallons per person per day and a maximum of 160 gallons per
household or REU per day;
         (b)   Control landscape irrigation by the utility’s customers by
staggering water times; and/or
         (c)   Mandatory restrictions on the use of water supplied by the
utility or activities, including:
            1.   Eliminate the washing down of sidewalks, walkways, driveways,
parking lots, tennis courts, and other hard surfaced areas;
            2.   Eliminate the washing down of buildings for purposes other
than immediate fire protection;
            3.   Eliminate the flushing of gutters;
            4.   Eliminate domestic washing of motorbikes, boats, cars, and the
like;
            5.   Eliminate the use of water to maintain fountains, reflection
ponds, and decorative water bodies for esthetic or scenic purposes, except
where necessary to support aquatic life;
            6.   Eliminate filling or maintain public or private swimming
pools; and
            7.   Eliminate obtaining water from fire hydrants for construction
purposes, fire drills, or any purpose other than firefighting or flushing
necessary to maintain water quality.
         (d)   Limit use of water by commercial and individual customers
including, but not limited to, the following:
            1.   Stop serving water in addition to another beverage routinely
in restaurants;
            2.   Stop maintaining water levels in scenic and recreation ponds
and lakes, except for the minimum amount required to support aquatic life;
            3.   Limit irrigation golf courses and any portion of its grounds;
            4.   Cease water service to customers who have been given a ten-day
notice to repair one or more leaks and have failed to do so; and
            5.   Limit expanding commercial nursery facilities, placing new
irrigated agricultural land in production, or planting or landscaping when
required by site design review process.
      (3)   Intensify maintenance efforts to identify and correct water leaks
in the distribution system.
      (4)   Continue to cease installation of new irrigation taps on the water
system.
      (5)   Publicize widely the penalties to be imposed for violations of
mandatory restrictions and the procedures to be followed if a variance in the
restrictions is requested.
      (6)   Expand the use of education and public relations efforts and
emphasize the penalties associated with violating the mandatory restrictions.
      (7)   Provide written notification monthly to the State Department of
Natural Resources Drought Information Center regarding the success of the
voluntary and mandatory restrictions.
   (D)   Extreme drought phase. Upon notification by the Drought Response
Committee that an extreme drought condition is present and is expected to
persist and upon determination by the New Ellenton CPW that an extreme water
supply shortage exists based on the trigger levels, the New Ellenton CPW will
impose mandatory restrictions in the use of water for all purposes and on the
times when certain water usage is allowed. Specifically, the goal during this
phase is to achieve a reduction of 30% in residential water use, 25% in all
other categories of water uses, and a reduction in overall use of 25%. To
accomplish these goals, the New Ellenton CPW will take the following actions.
      (1)   Issue a proclamation to be released to the local media, the New
Ellenton CPW customers, and to the State Department of Natural Resources
Drought Information Center that extreme drought conditions are present.
      (2)   Provide written notification to the State Department of Natural
Resources Drought Information Center and routinely publish in a newspaper of
general circulation in the service area of the water system the mandatory
restrictions to be placed on the use of water supplied by the utility,
including:
         (a)   Limiting residential water use to 30 gallons per person per day
and a maximum of 150 gallons per household or REU per day;
         (b)   Eliminate landscape irrigation by the utility’s customers;
         (c)   Mandatory restrictions on the use of water supplied by the
utility for activities, including:
            1.   Eliminate the washing down of sidewalks, walkways, driveways,
parking lots, tennis courts, and other hard surfaced areas;
            2.   Eliminate the washing down of buildings for purposes other
than immediate fire protection;
            3.   Eliminate the flushing of gutters;
            4.   No domestic washing of motorbikes, boats, cars, and the like;
            5.   Eliminate the use of water to maintain fountains, reflection
ponds, and decorative water bodies for aesthetic or scenic purposes, except
where necessary to support aquatic life;
            6.   Eliminate filling or maintaining public or private swimming
pools; and
            7.   Eliminate obtaining water from fire hydrants for construction
purposes, fire drills, or any purpose other than firefighting or flushing
necessary to maintain water quality.
         (d)   Limit normal water use by commercial and individual customers
including, but not limited to, the following:
            1.   Stop serving water in addition to another beverage routinely
in restaurants;
            2.   Stop maintaining water levels in scenic and recreational ponds
and lakes, except for minimum amount required to support fish and wildlife;
            3.   Limit irrigating golf courses and any portion of their
grounds;
            4.   Cease water service to customers who have been given a ten-day
notice to repair one or more leaks and have failed to do so; and
            5.   Limit expanding commercial nursery facilities, placing new
irrigated agricultural land in production, or planting or landscaping when
required by site design review process.
      (3)   Intensify maintenance efforts to identify and correct water leaks
in the distribution system.
      (4)   Continue to cease installation of new irrigation taps on the water
system.
      (5)   Outline other conservation measures, examples are:
         (a)   Place a moratorium on the issuance of all new water service
connections and contracts for all new water main extensions. As part of the
public information process, provide notice to developers of the moratorium;
         (b)   Encourage all residential water customers to voluntarily reduce
overall monthly water usage to 70% of the customer’s monthly average. If
voluntary reduction of usage is not successful, the New Ellenton CPW may, at
its option, implement the following excessive use rate schedule for water:
 
Tier I   0-3,000 gallons/REU     Regular rate
Tier II  3,000-6,000 gallons/REU Two times regular rate
Tier III Over 6,000 gallons/REU  Three times regular rate
 
         (c)   If the conservation measures of this section or Plan prove
inadequate to mitigate the effects of the drought conditions or water supply
availability, the New Ellenton CPW may take additional actions including, but
not limited to:
            1.   Decreasing the gallons’ REU limits in the different tiers;
and/or
            2.   Reduction of the water system pressure as needed.
      (6)   Publicize widely the penalties to be imposed for violations of
mandatory restrictions and the procedures to be followed if a variance in the
restrictions is requested.
      (7)   Expand the use of education and public relations efforts as
conducted under the moderate and severe drought phase and emphasize the
penalties associated with violating the mandatory restrictions.
      (8)   Provide written notification monthly to the State Department of
Natural Resources Drought Information Center regarding the success of the
mandatory restrictions.
   (E)   Rationing. If a drought threatens the protection of public health and
safety, the New Ellenton CPW is hereby authorized to ration water.
   (F)   Enforcement of restrictions.
      (1)   If any customer of the New Ellenton CPW fails to comply with the
mandatory water use restrictions of this section, the customer shall be given
written notice of such failure to comply, which cites the date of said
violation, and penalties shall be assessed in accordance with §
51.99(C):
      (2)   Law enforcement agencies and other authorized agencies or
designated employees in the respective jurisdiction which is being supplied by
the New Ellenton CPW shall diligently enforce the provisions of this section.
   (G)   Variances.
      (1)   Customers who, in their belief, are unable to comply with the
mandatory water use restrictions of this section, may petition for a variance
from restrictions by filing a petition with the New Ellenton CPW within ten
working days after the issuance of the proclamation requiring water use
restrictions.
      (2)   All petitions for variance shall contain the following information:
         (a)   Name and address of the petitioner;
         (b)   Purpose of water usage;
         (c)   Special provision from which the petitioner is requesting
relief;
         (d)   Detailed statement as to how the curtailment declaration
adversely affects the petitioner;
         (e)   Description of the relief desired;
         (f)   Period of time for which the variance is sought;
         (g)   Economic value of the water use;
         (h)   Damage or harm to the petitioner or others if the petitioner
complies with this section;
         (i)   Restrictions with which the petitioner is expected to comply and
the compliance date;
         (j)   Steps the petitioner is taking to meet the restrictions from
which the variance is sought and the expected date of compliance; and
         (k)   Other information as needed.
      (3)   In order for the variance to be granted, the petitioner must
demonstrate clearly that compliance with this section cannot be technically
accomplished during the duration of the water supply shortage without having an
adverse impact upon the best interest of the community. The New Ellenton CPW is
authorized to grant the request for variance.
      (4)   In addition, the New Ellenton CPW is authorized to grant temporary
variance for existing water uses otherwise prohibited under this section if it
is determined that failure to grant such variances could cause an emergency
condition adversely affecting health, sanitation, and fire protection for the
public. No such variance shall be retroactive or otherwise justify any
violation of this section occurring prior to the issuance of the variance.
Variances granted by the New Ellenton CPW shall include a timetable for
compliance and shall expire when the water supply shortage no longer exists,
unless the petitioner has failed to meet specified requirements.
(Res. passed 3-23-2026)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any one who violates §
51.07 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished as provided by law.
      (2)   Any such person to whom such water is furnished from or by means of
a meter, as described in §
51.07, who shall willfully and with intention to cheat and defraud the New
Ellenton Commission of Public Works, alter or interfere with such meter, or by
any contrivance whatsoever draws or takes off water in any manner except
through such meter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and be punished as
provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 11-27)
   (C)   Violation of §
51.28 shall be as follows:
          (a)   First penalty: $75 penalty shall be added to the customer’s
water bill;
         (b)   Second penalty: An additional $150 penalty shall be added to the
customer’s water bill; and
         (c)   Third penalty: The customer’s water service shall be terminated
and restored only after payment of $300 in addition to all previously assessed
penalties.
(Res. passed 3-23-2026)
CHAPTER 52: SOLID WASTE
Section
Disposal
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Collection by city; promulgation of regulations
   
52.03   Days of collection established
   
52.04   Residential pick up procedures
   
52.05   Number of carts
   
52.06   Use, maintenance of carts; prohibitions
   
52.07   Commercial, industrial containers
   
52.08   Use, maintenance of containers
   
52.09   Damaged containers
   
52.10   Unauthorized use of commercial containers, responsibility of user
   
52.11   Number of containers permitted
   
52.12   Containers to be put out at time fixed
   
52.13   Interference with contents of containers
   
52.14   Number of pickups
   
52.15   Dumping of garbage and the like
   
52.16   Placing, sweeping trash, rubbish, and the like on streets, sidewalks
   
52.17   Industrial, building materials, refuse
   
52.18   Yard debris removal
Refuse Service Charges
   
52.30   Levy and collection
   
52.31   Roll-a-waste containers (carts)
   
52.32   Payment, when due
   
52.33   Applications for container for single- level housing facilities
   
52.34   Garbage fees to be collected with water, sewer bills through the CPW
**** DISPOSAL ****
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. The cold residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke, or other
combustible materials.
   BIOMEDICAL WASTE. Pathological waste, biological waste cultures and stocks
of infectious agents and associated biologicals, contaminated animal carcasses
(body parts, their bedding, and other wastes from such animals), sharps,
chemotherapy waste, and discarded medical equipment and parts, not including
expendable supplies and materials which have not been decontaminated.
   BULKY WASTE. Discarded items that are larger than three feet in any
dimension limited to items such as mattresses and box springs, indoor/outdoor
furniture, swing sets, plastic swimming pools, large toys, bicycles, fish
aquariums, sofas, chairs, tables, carpets, and other similar items and/or
heavier than 50 pounds in weight, and/or otherwise will not fit within an empty
cart, thus too large or too bulky to be collected by a contractor, including,
but not limited to, items such as mattresses and box springs, indoor or outdoor
furniture, swing sets, plastic swimming pools, large toys, bicycles, fish
aquariums, sofas, chairs, tables, carpets, and other similar items.
   C&D MATERIALS. Waste building materials and rubble, excluding hazardous
waste, resulting from construction, remodeling, repair, and demolition
operations on pavements, houses, commercial buildings, and other structures.
Such waste includes, but is not limited to, wood, bricks, metal, concrete, wall
board, paper, cardboard, carpeting, construction materials resulting from
remodeling, inert waste landfill material, and other non-putrescible wastes
which have a low potential for groundwater contamination.
   CART. A rollout receptacle for residential solid waste with a capacity of 95
gallons, constructed of plastic, metal, or fiberglass, having handles of
adequate strength for lifting, and having a tight-fitting lid.
   COMMERCIAL CONTAINER. A metal container approved by the city.
   CURBSIDE. The location that is within at least four feet of the curb, paved
surface of the public road, closest accessible public right-of-way, or other
such location that will provide a safe and efficient accessibility to the
contractor’s personnel and vehicles for the placement of carts for collection.
   CUSTOMER. The owner and/or occupant of a residential or commercial premises.
   DISABLED PERSON. The owner of residential premises who is disabled to the
extent that he or she is incapable of placing his or her cart at the curbside
location for collection. DISABLED PERSON shall not include any person located
at commercial premises.
   GARBAGE. Non-hazardous solid waste consisting of putrescible animal and
vegetable waste materials resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking,
and consumption of food, including waste materials from markets, storage
facilities, handling and sale of produce, and other farm products.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any and all:
      (1)   Hazardous substances, pollutants, and contaminants, as defined by
the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of
1980, 40 U.S.C. § 9601, as amended, solid or hazardous wastes, as defined by
the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended, hazardous materials, as
defined by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. Chapter 82, as
amended, hazardous materials, as defined by the Hazardous Materials
Transportation Act, 49 U.S.C. §§ 5101 et seq., as amended, toxic substances, as
defined by the Toxic Substances Control Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq., as
amended, toxic chemicals or extremely hazardous substances, as defined by the
Emergency Planning and Community Right-To-Know Act, 42 U.S.C. Chapter 116, as
amended, hazardous air pollutants, as defined by the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C.
§§ 7401 et seq., as amended, and hazardous substances, as defined by the Clean
Water Act, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., as amended;
      (2)   Any other toxins, chemicals, wastes, substances, or materials which
pose an unreasonable risk to human health or the environment, or which are
regulated under any applicable federal, state, or local laws, rules, or
regulations, or any other material which any governmental agency or unit having
appropriate jurisdiction shall determine from time to time is harmful, toxic,
or dangerous, or otherwise ineligible for disposal at the intended disposal
site utilized by a contractor;
      (3)   Any material that requires other than normal handling, storage,
management, transfer, or disposal; or
      (4)   Any other material that may present a substantial endangerment to
public health or safety, may cause applicable air quality or water standards to
be violated by the normal operation of the disposal site to be utilized by the
contractor, or because of its size, durability, or composition cannot be
disposed of at such disposal site or has a reasonable possibility of otherwise
adversely affecting the operation or useful life of such disposal site.
   RESIDENTIAL SOLID WASTE. All garbage and rubbish generated by a residential
premises, excluding automobile parts, tires, C&D materials, yard trash, bulky
waste, white good, hazardous waste, or any unacceptable waste.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid waste consisting of paper, rags, cardboard,
cartons, wood, rubber, plastics, glass, crockery, metal cans, or other such
waste.
   SPECIAL WASTE. Any and all treated or de-characterized (formerly hazardous)
wastes; polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) wastes; industrial process wastes;
asbestos containing material; chemical containing equipment; demolition debris;
incinerator ash; medical wastes; off-spec chemicals; sludges; spill cleanup
wastes; underground storage tank (UST) soils; and wastes from service
industries.
   UNACCEPTABLE WASTE.
      (1)   Waste and materials that are not part of the services contemplated
hereunder as determined by the contractor;
      (2)   Hazardous waste, biomedical waste, special waste, tires, paints,
paint solvents, unemptied aerosol cans, compressed gas cylinders, large engine
parts, small engines containing oils or fuels, chemicals, large glass panes,
large tree debris, stumps, ammunition of any type, dead animals larger than ten
pounds, and firearms;
      (3)   Waste of which the acceptance and handling by a contractor would
cause a violation of any permit condition, legal or regulatory requirement,
substantial damage to the contractor’s vehicles, equipment, or facilities, or
present a substantial danger to the health or safety of the public or the
contractor’s employees; and
      (4)   Waste which is or may be prohibited from disposal at the applicable
disposal site by local, federal, or state law, regulation, rule, code,
ordinance, order, permit, or permit condition.
   WHITE GOODS. Household appliances such as refrigerators, stoves, washers,
dryers, water heaters, and other large, enameled appliances, which do not
container PCB or CFC units and have been officially certified to that effect,
and in the case of freezers and refrigerators, which have had the doors
removed.
   YARD TRASH.
      (1)   Leaves, brush, grass clippings, shrub and tree prunings, discarded
Christmas trees, nursery and greenhouse vegetative residuals, and vegetative
matter resulting from landscaping development and maintenance conducted by the
owner of their residential premises; any mining, agricultural, and
silvicultural operations excluded.
      (2)   The term YARD TRASH does not include stumps, roots, or shrubs with
intact root balls, construction materials of any kind and specifically excludes
all wood that has been treated or preserved with chromated copper arsenate
(CCA), pentachlorophenol, or other chemicals which have been classified as
known human carcinogens by the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 6-16-2025)
§ 52.02 COLLECTION BY CITY; PROMULGATION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All refuse accumulated in the city shall be collected, conveyed, and
disposed of by the city or the designated contractor, under the supervision of
the Administrator.
   (B)   The Administrator shall have the authority to make regulations
concerning the days of collection, type, and location of waste containers and
such matters pertaining to the collection, conveyance, and disposal as he or
she shall find necessary, and to change and modify the same, provided that such
regulations are not contrary to the provisions hereof. It shall be unlawful for
any person to fail, neglect, or refuse to comply with such regulations so
promulgated and approved.
   (C)   No person, other than those under the direction of the Administrator,
shall haul or remove any refuse set out for collection as provided for in this
subchapter, except by written consent of the Administrator.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 6-16-2025) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.03 DAYS OF COLLECTION ESTABLISHED.
   The city shall collect residential garbage, based upon a schedule as
prepared by the Administrator and (when required) with the contractor of
choice.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 6-16-2025)
§ 52.04 RESIDENTIAL PICK UP PROCEDURES.
   Accumulations of refuse shall be placed in a roll-a-waste containers (carts)
and placed at curbside no earlier than 7:00 p.m. on the evening prior to the
designated collection day and shall be removed from the curbside by 7:00 p.m.
on such designated collection.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 6-16-2025)
§ 52.05 NUMBER OF CARTS.
   Each residence shall be provided with one cart. Additional containers will
be provided, upon the demonstrated need for such containers, for an additional
fee for each additional container.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 6-16-2025)
§ 52.06 USE, MAINTENANCE OF CARTS; PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   The containers shall not be used for purposes other than the storage
of refuse which is non-combustible.
   (B)   The deposit of poisons, acids, caustics, explosives, soils,
construction materials, furniture, or any other materials which would cause
damage to the containers or the mechanical lifting devices on collection
vehicles is prohibited.
   (C)   Writing, marking, cutting, painting, or any abusive treatment of such
containers is prohibited.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 6-16-2025)
§ 52.07 COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Properly sized commercial containers for refuse collection, as may be
designated by the Sanitation Department, shall be provided by the owner of all
commercial and industrial establishments. These also shall include businesses,
schools, churches, clubs, eleemosynary institutions, clinics, or any other
locations where the use of such containers is considered to be advantageous to
the general welfare of the city for reasons of health, sanitation, economy, or
appearance.
   (B)   A commercial or industrial establishment may be allowed by the
Sanitation Department to make use of roll-a-waste containers for refuse
collection. In such case, they shall be governed by the rules for residential
collection.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 6-16-2025)
§ 52.08 USE, MAINTENANCE OF CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Those persons generating large objects of refuse shall be required to
first reduce the size of such objects before placing them in the commercial
container or roll-a-waste container for disposal. Large objects shall include,
but not be limited to, cardboard boxes, paper containers, wooden boxes and
crates, and other such objects larger than 18 inches in width or depth and 18
inches in height.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the containers to remain open except while
being serviced. Users of containers shall be responsible for keeping containers
closed. It shall be unlawful to burn refuse in commercial or roll-a-waste
containers. Roll-a-waste containers shall be placed at curbside to be emptied,
unless a waiver of this requirement, for medical reasons, has been granted by
the City Administrator.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 6-16-2025) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.09 DAMAGED CONTAINERS.
   The replacement cost of any cart found to be damaged due to placing
unauthorized objects into said container or through neglect of the user shall
be charged to said user.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 6-16-2025)
§ 52.10 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF COMMERCIAL CONTAINERS, RESPONSIBILITY OF USER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to place the following objects into commercial
containers:
      (1)   Tires;
      (2)   Building materials;
      (3)   Bed springs;
      (4)   Box springs;
      (5)   Mattresses;
      (6)   Stoves;
      (7)   Refrigerators;
      (8)   Water heaters;
      (9)   Large furniture items;
      (10)   Poles;
      (11)   Hot ashes; and
      (12)   Hazardous waste.
   (B)   (1)   It has been determined that the above objects cause damage to
the packing mechanism of the garbage truck.
      (2)   It will be the responsibility of the users to ensure that none of
the above objects are placed into commercial containers.
      (3)   It will also be the responsibility of the person or business that
generates the objects in division (A) above to ensure that they are properly
disposed of.
      (4)   The Administrator is authorized, upon the showing of special
circumstances and conditions, to authorize a modification of the requirements
contained in this section.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 6-16-2025) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.11 NUMBER OF CONTAINERS PERMITTED.
   Each user shall be limited to four containers. The Administrator is
authorized, upon the showing of special circumstances and conditions, to modify
the limits contained in this section.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 6-16-2025)
§ 52.12 CONTAINERS TO BE PUT OUT AT TIME FIXED.
   It shall be the duty of each landlord, tenant, or storekeeper to see that
all refuse containers are set out at such time as may be fixed by the city.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 6-16-2025)
§ 52.13 INTERFERENCE WITH CONTENTS OF CONTAINERS.
   No person shall overhaul, molest, or interfere with the contents of any
container set out for removal, unless permission is granted by the city.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 6-16-2025) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.14 NUMBER OF PICKUPS.
   The number of pickups shall be determined by the Administrator and the
garbage collection contractor.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 6-16-2025)
§ 52.15 DUMPING OF GARBAGE AND THE LIKE.
   No refuse or offensive or disease-producing material shall be dumped on any
lot or space within the city for any purpose.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 6-16-2025) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.16 PLACING, SWEEPING TRASH, RUBBISH, AND THE LIKE ON STREETS, SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to put, place, or throw any
refuse, trash, house sweepings, paper cups, garbage, shavings, or any other
rubbish upon any sidewalk or in any public street, public alley, or other
public place except in containers of the type required by this subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit in or sweep into any
street, sidewalk, gutter, or catch basin any refuse, paper, trash, rubbish,
broken glass, tin cans, bottles, fruit or vegetable peelings, or any other
refuse, ashes, or waste. Such materials shall be accumulated as hereinbefore
specified and placed in containers, as defined in §
52.13. Nor shall any householder or storekeeper, by himself or herself, or
agent, cause to be swept from any house, yard, store, or elsewhere any dirt or
refuse in or upon the sidewalks or public streets.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 6-16-2025) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.17 INDUSTRIAL, BUILDING MATERIALS, REFUSE.
   No building materials or refuse from building operations or landscape
contract work will be removed from any lot by the city. All large accumulations
of glass, shavings, or waste materials of any kind resulting from building
operations or landscaping work shall be removed by the contractor in charge of
such operation.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 6-16-2025)
§ 52.18 YARD DEBRIS REMOVAL.
   (A)   The city will remove regular (normal, weekly/monthly) yard debris
under the following conditions:
      (1)   Yard debris (leaves and straw must be in bags weighing no more than
35 pounds); and
      (2)   Limbs (no bigger than four inches in diameter and no longer than
ten feet).
   (B)   The city will not remove any of the following:
      (1)   Glass;
      (2)   Rubber;
      (3)   Clothes;
      (4)   Furniture;
      (5)   Mattresses;
      (6)   Appliances;
      (7)   Carpet;
      (8)   Lumber; and
      (9)   Construction materials.
   (C)   Yard debris and limbs will be picked up from any property in the city
limits if it is on the front perimeter of the property and closest to the
mailbox. The city has the right to refuse the pickup of debris if it is
determined that the work was done by a contractor and left by the contractor
for the city to pick up, or if the amount deems excessive (overhauling an
entire yard, cutting down trees, and pulling out bushes and leaving them out
for the city to pick up may be deemed excessive).
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 6-16-2025)
**** REFUSE SERVICE CHARGES ****
§ 52.30 LEVY AND COLLECTION.
   A special garbage and trash collection fee for the collection of refuse is
hereby levied, and shall be collected. In no event shall the special fee be
waved.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 6-16-2025)
§ 52.31 ROLL-A-WASTE CONTAINERS (CARTS).
   (A)   There is hereby established a special fee for use of roll-a-waste
containers in the amount of $15 per cart per month for residential customers
and small business commercial customers.
   (B)   In the case of shared containers, each residence or business shall be
charged the minimum fee.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 6-16-2025)
§ 52.32 PAYMENT, WHEN DUE.
   The refuse special fee provided for in this subchapter shall be due and
payable under the same rules and regulations as are provided for the collection
of utility bills and paid therewith.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 6-16-2025)
§ 52.33 APPLICATIONS FOR CONTAINER FOR SINGLE-LEVEL HOUSING FACILITIES.
   Single-level housing facilities containing more than two dwelling units may
have refuse collected through the use of a commercial container or through the
use of a roll-a-waste container. If the method chosen is a commercial
container, the service charges shall be borne by the owner of the housing
facility.
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 6-16-2025)
§ 52.34 GARBAGE FEES TO BE COLLECTED WITH WATER, SEWER BILLS THROUGH THE CPW.
   New residents and businesses must first apply for garbage services through
the city offices. Garbage fees shall be collected with water and sewer bills
sent to each customer through the contracted service agreement with the CPW
(Commission of Public Works).
(Ord. 2025-02, passed 6-16-2025)
CHAPTER 53: SEWAGE
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Generally
Disposal Standards, Requirements
   
53.015   Definitions
   
53.016   Subchapter does not grant County or Public Service Authority
jurisdiction over systems owned by city, water or sewer districts
   
53.017   Right of entry to enforce subchapter
   
53.018   Unlawful disposal of sewage generally
   
53.019   Discharge of sewage to natural outlets
   
53.020   Mandatory connection to public sewer
   
53.021   Occupational Health and Safety Act
Building Sewers
   
53.035   Permit
   
53.036   Owner to bear cost of installation, indemnity of city
   
53.037   Separate sewer required for each building; exception
   
53.038   Use of old sewers for new buildings
   
53.039   Size, slope materials, and the like
   
53.040   Elevation; proximity to bearing wall, and the like
   
53.041   Guarding of excavations; restoration of disturbed public property
   
53.042   Connection of downspouts, foundation drains, and the like, prohibited
   
53.043   Connection to public sewer
   
53.044   Pumping facilities
Sewer Use Standards
   
53.055   Prohibited discharges generally
   
53.056   Discharge of scavenger wastes
   
53.057   Authority of city to reject, require pretreatment of certain wastes
   
53.058   Maintenance of pretreatment, flow equalizing facilities
   
53.059   Grease, oil, sand interceptors
   
53.060   Surge tank for certain industries
   
53.061   Control manholes, other facilities for observation; sampling,
measurement of industrial waste
   
53.062   Method of measuring, testing, and the like
   
53.063   Agreement for acceptance of industrial waste for pretreatment
   
53.064   Surcharges
   
53.065   Discharges into storm sewer system
Private Disposal Systems
   
53.080   When required
   
53.081   Type, capacity, and the like
   
53.082   Permit to install
   
53.083   Inspection
   
53.084   Operation and maintenance
   
53.085   Abandonment when public sewer becomes available
   
53.086   Subchapter does not nullify requirements of State or County Health
Officer
Compliance Enforcement
   
53.100   Failure to meet requirements
   
53.101   Notice of violation
   
53.102   User reply
   
53.103   Failure to reply to notice of violation
   
53.104   Show cause hearing
   
53.105   Hearing testimony
   
53.106   Remedies
   
53.107   Falsifying information
   
53.108   Emergencies
   
53.109   Service suspension
 
   
53.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 53.001 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Sewer system. The sewer system, including the sewage treatment
facility and all other improvements, extensions, and additions thereto, shall
be known as the Sewer Department of the city.
   (B)   Fiscal year of system. The sewer system shall be operated on the same
fiscal year basis as that used by the city.
   (C)   Adoption of cross-connection, backflow, and back siphonage control
regulations.
      (1)   For the protection of the water supply against possible
contamination arising from problems involving cross-connections, backflow and
back siphonage, the provisions of Appendix D of the Standard Plumbing Code,
1982 edition, and future revisions as they may be published (published by the
Southern Building Code Congress International, Inc.), entitled “Cross-
Connection, Backflow and Back Siphonage Control” are adopted.
      (2)   The City Sewer Department is hereby given the primary
responsibility for enforcement of the provisions of this section and for
maintaining all records pertaining thereto.
      (3)   The regulations and provisions of this section shall apply to the
entire sewer system of the city, whether located inside or outside the city
limits.
      (4)   The functions, duties, powers, and responsibilities of the Cross-
Connection, Backflow, and Back Siphonage Control Board referred to in said
Appendix D, are delegated to the Sewer Department.
   (D)   Permit for connections. It shall be unlawful for any person to make
any connection to the city’s sewer system without a permit so to do issued by
the Sewer Department.
   (E)   Charges for connections and facilities.
      (1)   For each new connection to the sewer system, the person applying
for services shall pay the following fees:
 
Sewer Connection Fees
Sewer taps (commercial)  $2,000
Sewer taps (residential) $2,000*
Notes to Table:
*   Payable in 12 equal monthly installments
 
      (2)   In addition to the foregoing fees, a sewer facilities charge shall
be assessed on each new residential, commercial, or other development which,
alone or in combination with other developments or areas, requires, in the
discretion of the city, the installation, expansion, upgrading, or modification
of sewer facilities by the city to provide adequate sanitary sewer service to
the development. The charges paid on a development shall be placed in a
separate account for sewer facilities construction and shall be expended only
to defray bonded indebtedness, other obligations, or costs incurred or to be
incurred by the city to install, expand, upgrade, or modify facilities that
receive or will receive sewerage from the development. The charge must be paid
by the developer, builder, or owner prior to the sewer connection being made on
the development, or where a development is comprised of individual lots, prior
to the sewer connection being made on the individual lot on which the charge is
assessed. The amount of the sewer facilities charge shall be determined on a
case by case basis.
   (F)   Service charges and deposits to be fixed by ordinance.
      (1)   The charges for sewer service rendered by the city shall be as
follows:
         (a)   Single-family residential: $36 per single-family residence
located within the city limits of the city. Thirty-seven dollars and fifty
cents per single-family residence located without the city limits of the city;
         (b)   Multi-family residential, including mobile home parks and
apartments: $25 per residential unit located within the city limits of the
city. Thirty-seven dollars and fifty cents per residential unit located without
the city limits of the city; and
         (c)   Commercial and other develop-ments: This amount shall be
determined on a case by case basis depending upon the size of the commercial
development. For the costs associated with existing commercial businesses, see
attached Exhibit “A” attached to the ordinance codified in this chapter.
      (2)   The sewer facilities charges set forth hereinabove shall be
reviewed and, if appropriate, revised by the city from time to time by
ordinance.
   (G)   Deposits. Each new customer on the sewer system shall pay a refundable
deposit of $25. This deposit shall be refunded upon the closing of the
customer’s account, provided his, her, or their account with the city is
current. In the event a customer closes their account, leaves the area, or
cannot be located and his, her, or their account has a past due balance, that
customer’s deposit may be applied to the amount owed to the city.
   (H)   Annual notification of sewer user charge components. The city shall
publish annually on a regular monthly billing a notice listing the monthly
sewer rate user charges and the components thereof, including the portion
thereof attributable to operation, maintenance, and replacement of wastewater
treatment facilities. Where the notice required by this section cannot be
contained on such a billing, the city may provide the notice through a direct
mailing to each customer.
   (I)   No free service; charges to be paid by city and other governmental
entitles. No sewer service shall be furnished or rendered free of charge to any
person, governmental entity, or to the city. The city shall pay the reasonable
cost and value of all services furnished to it from current funds or from the
proceeds of taxes.
   (J)   Applicability of charges for sewer service. Every customer receiving
metered water service and whose property can be serviced by the existing sewer
system or as future properties may be served upon expansion of the existing
sewer system from the city shall be subject to the city’s sewer service charge,
whether he, she, or they utilize such sewer service or not.
   (K)   Billing of service charges. Bills for sewer service shall be rendered
every month. Monthly charges for sewer service shall begin to accrue
immediately upon connection of such service. The City Clerk and Treasurer may
promulgate, subject to review and approval by the City Council, written
policies for the commencement of monthly charges and billings for sewer service
and garbage and refuse service. The City Clerk and Treasurer also may
promulgate, subject to review and approval by the City Council, written
policies for billing apartments, office buildings, and similar multi-unit
structures and developments for monthly charges for water, sewer, garbage, and
refuse service.
   (L)   When and where bills due and payable; late payment charge. Bills for
sewer, garbage, and similar services shall be due and payable at the City Clerk
and Treasurer’s office, or such other places as the City Council shall
designate, on or before the twentieth day of the month in which the bill is
issued. A late payment charge of $1 per day shall be added to all unpaid bills.
For purposes of this section, all charges for sewer, garbage, and similar
services appearing on one monthly billing statement shall be considered one
bill.
   (M)   Discontinuance of service.
      (1)   If any bill for sewer service, garbage service, or any other
service City Council has authorized to be billed monthly remains unpaid for 20
days after the bill is rendered, any or all services to the customer may be
immediately discontinued until the customer has paid the past due bill and any
applicable reconnection charge. In the event that garbage service bills remain
unpaid for 20 days after the bill is rendered, the city, or its designated
representative, shall be authorized to remove the customer’s garbage
receptacle. Prior to resumption of garbage service, the customer shall pay all
past due charges together with any applicable charges associated with the
return of the trash receptacle. The city may also issue a rule to show cause to
any person or persons who have failed to pay such bill requiring that person or
persons to appear before the City Magistrate to show why he, she, or they have
not made his, her, or their monthly payments.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to reconnect service when it
has been discontinued under this section until all past due charges have been
paid in full, including the reconnection charges. Any such reconnection must be
effected by the city.
      (3)   Sewer service to customers located outside the city also may be
terminated for the failure of a customer or property owner to comply with any
terms or conditions established by City Council for the receipt of such
service. Written notice of the discontinuance of service under this division
(M) shall be sent by the city by regular United States mail to the service
address, and to the billing address, if it is different from the service
address, at least five days prior to the actual discontinuation of service.
      (4)   In addition to the various means defined above regarding the
collection of past due sewer and trash disposal bills, the city may also pursue
payment by way of the State Setoff Debt Collection Act, codified at S.C. Code
§§ 12-56-10 et seq., and 12-56-63, and as it may be amended from time to time.
   (N)   Rates.
      (1)   For the past ten years, the sewer rates in the city have remained
at $30/month for residential and the rates set for commercial businesses while
the inflationary rate has increased over 30%. Therefore, all single-family
residential sewer customers within the city will have their sewer rates set at
a base rate of $36/month up to 2,000 gallons of water used, and an additional
rate of $2 per thousand over 2,000 gallons used up to 4,000 gallons, and an
additional fee of $1 per thousand for water usage over 4,000 gallons of water.
All non-single-family residents and commercial accounts will have base rate
fees as shown herein and use the same escalating fee as herein set for single-
family residential customers.
      (2)   The sewer tap fee will increase from $600 to $2,000. The new sewer
tap fee will apply to developments and single residential projects approved
after January 1, 2024.
      (3)   All sewer customers’ bills will be based on the averages of their
January, February and March bills each year. These averages will become their
monthly sewer bill beginning in July of each year.
      (4)   This division (N) shall become effective with the July 2024 utility
billing by the city.
      (5)   (a)   New base sewer rates for non- single-family residences ($36):
Code 41 (S2 Commercial)               $49
Code 42 (S3 Commercial)               $56
Code 43 (S4 Church)                   $56
Code 44 (S5 Restaurant)               $63
Code 45 (S6 Daycare)                  $105
Code 46 (S7 Grocery)                  $140
Code 47 (S8 Grocery)                  $246
Code 48 (S9 School)                   $228
Code 49 (S10 Charitable organization) $49
Code 50 (S11 Gas/service station)     $49
 
         (b)   New escalating fee structure beyond the above base rates for
both single-family residential and all other customers, including commercial
customers:
 
2,000 gallons to 4,000 gallons of water usage $2 per thousand
Above 4,000 gallons of usage                  $1 per thousand
 
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998; Ord. 8-18-14, passed 7-21-2014; Ord. 01-16-24,
passed 1-16-2024)  Penalty, see §
53.999
**** DISPOSAL STANDARDS, REQUIREMENTS ****
§ 53.015 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms
used in this subchapter shall be as set forth in this section. Words not
defined in this section shall be construed as having the meaning defined in
“Glossary Water and Sewage Control Engineering,” published by the Water
Pollution Control Federation, Washington, D.C., or by their general usage, if
undefined.
   AUTHORITY. The County Public Service Authority, Aiken County, South
Carolina.
   BOD (DENOTING BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedure, five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal pipi ng of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CITY. The City of New Ellenton, South Carolina, including all its wastewater
collection and treatment facilities.
   GARBAGE. Solid waste from the domestic and commercial preparation or cooking
and dispensing of food or from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. The liquid waste from industrial manufacturing processes,
trade, or business, as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The waste from the preparation of cooking and
dispensing food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles will
be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and which is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage to which storm-, surface, and
groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with such
ground-, surface, and stormwaters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of the devices and structures used
for treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SEWER SURCHARGE. A charge for sewer service and treatment service for wastes
hauling characteristics different from sanitary wastes and for which additional
charges must be assessed in order for the waste to make compensation for
additional expenses incurred.
   SHALL; MAY. SHALL is mandatory, MAY is permissive.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, sewage, or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds, for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes, more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration proposed during normal operation.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of “Standard Methods of Water, Sewage, and Industrial
Wastes,” published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association, and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
   STORM DRAIN (STORM SEWER). A sewer which carries storm- and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted
cooling water.
   STREET. Embraces streets, avenues, drives, boulevards, roads, alleys, lanes,
viaducts, and all other public highways in the sanitary area.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids which are removable by laboratory
filtering.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended matter, settleable matter, and dissolved
matter, both volatile and non-volatile.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 53.016 SUBCHAPTER DOES NOT GRANT COUNTY OR PUBLIC SERVICE AUTHORITY
JURISDICTION OVER SYSTEMS OWNED BY CITY, WATER OR SEWER DISTRICTS.
   Notwithstanding the terms and conditions of this subchapter, nothing herein
contained shall be construed to grant the county or the County Public Service
Authority jurisdiction or authority over any portion of any water or sewer
system currently owned or in the future owned or acquired by any municipality
or water or sewer district, whether located within or without the corporate
limits of such municipality or within or without the defined jurisdictional
boundaries of such water or sewer district.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 53.017 RIGHT OF ENTRY TO ENFORCE SUBCHAPTER.
   (A)   (1)   The duly authorized employees of the city, bearing proper
credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all properties for
the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   The city and its representatives shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic,
paper, or other industries, beyond that point having a direct bearing on the
kind and source of discharge to the sewer or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private property referred to in
this section, the employees of the city shall observe all safety rules
applicable to the premises established by the company.
   (C)   The duly authorized employees of the city, bearing proper credentials
and identification, shall be permitted to enter all private properties through
which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not
limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and
maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying within such easement. All
entry and subsequent work, if any, on such easement shall be done in full
accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the
private property involved.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 53.018 UNLAWFUL DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited, in any unsanitary manner, on public or private property within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.019 DISCHARGE OF SEWAGE TO NATURAL OUTLETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge to any natural outlet
within the city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city any sewage or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.020 MANDATORY CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   (A)   The owner of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purpose situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there shall be
located a public sanitary sewer of the city, is hereby required at his or her
expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein and to connect such
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with provisions
of this subchapter, within 90 days after written notice from the city. In the
event the property is served, at the passing of this subchapter, by a private
disposal system, that owner may continue to operate that private disposal
system until such time as that system may no longer be operable. The owner will
still be required to pay the minimum monthly payment for residential users of
$25 per month upon the passage of this subchapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain any
privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used
for the disposal of sewage, where public sewers are available.
   (C)   Sewer service will not be considered to be available to a particular
property where the distance between the house or building to be serviced and
the public sewer is more than 200 feet. The city shall have the option to
extend its service to achieve the 200-foot requirement.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.021 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY ACT.
   All applicable requirements set forth in the Occupational Health and Safety
Act (OSHA) and regulations enacted pursuant thereto shall be complied within
construction, maintenance, operation, and use of the city sanitary sewer
system.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
**** BUILDING SEWERS ****
§ 53.035 PERMIT.
   (A)   No person not authorized by the city shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the city.
   (B)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits, one for
residential and commercial services, and one for service to establishments
producing industrial wastes. In either case, the owner, or his or her agent,
shall make application for a permit on a special form furnished by the city.
The application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the city. A permit and
inspection fee for a residential or commercial building sewer permit or an
industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to the city at the time the
application is filed.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 53.036 OWNER TO BEAR COST OF INSTALLATION, INDEMNITY OF CITY.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer to the point where the city stub ends shall be borne by the
owner. The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may,
directly or indirectly, be occasioned by the installation of the building
sewer.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 53.037 SEPARATE SEWER REQUIRED FOR EACH BUILDING; EXCEPTION.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; provided that, where a building stands to the rear of another on a
single lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear
building through an adjoining alley, courtyard, or driveway, the city may grant
permission for the building sewer from the front building to be extended to the
rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer, upon a showing by
the applicant that it is not feasible that the two buildings so connected will
ultimately be on separate building lots.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 53.038 USE OF OLD SEWERS FOR NEW BUILDINGS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the city, to meet all the
requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 53.039 SIZE, SLOPE MATERIALS, AND THE LIKE.
   The size, slope, alignment, and materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of
the appropriate specifications of the ASTM or “WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9,”
or such other standard as may be adopted by the city. All installations to be
subject to the expressed written approval of the city, and in no case shall the
size of pipe installed be less than four inches in normal diameter.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 53.040 ELEVATION; PROXIMITY TO BEARING WALL, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement or first floor. No building sewer shall be
made parallel to or within three feet of any bearing wall, which might thereby
be weakened.
   (B)   The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from live loads
(automobiles, and the like) which may be superimposed. The building sewer shall
be made at uniform grade and in straight alignment, insofar as possible.
   (C)   The building sewer shall be constructed to such point as directed by
the city.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 53.041 GUARDING OF EXCAVATIONS; RESTORATION OF DISTURBED PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   All excavations for building sewer installations shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazards. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 53.042 CONNECTION OF DOWNSPOUTS, FOUNDATION DRAINS, AND THE LIKE, PROHIBITED.
   No person shall maintain or make a connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain, which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.043 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   (A)   (1)   Before any underground portions thereof are covered, the
applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the city when the building
sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer.
      (2)   The connection thereof shall be made to the public sewer only after
inspection. The inspection thereof shall be made within two working days of
receipt of notice by the city.
   (B)   The city shall keep a permanent and accurate record of the location,
depth, and direction of all new sewer connections, including such landmarks as
may be necessary to make an adequate description.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 53.044 PUMPING FACILITIES.
   When a building elevation is too high to permit connection to a public
sewer, the owner shall install pumping facilities capable of lifting the sewage
to the public sewer. Pumping facilities shall be inspected and approved by the
plumbing official.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
**** SEWER USE STANDARDS ****
§ 53.055 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES GENERALLY.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, or subsurface drainage to any public
sewer.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following waters or wastes to any public sewer:
      (1)   Any gasoline, behzene, naptha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (2)   Any water or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, to constitute
a hazard to humans or animals, to create a public nuisance, or to create any
hazard in the receiving waters in the sewage treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH less than 6.0 or greater than 11.0
or containing heavy concentrations of salts or having any other corrosive
property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment, and
personnel of the sewage works; and/or
      (4)   Solids or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstructions in the flow of sewage or other interference to the
proper operation of the sewage works, such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole or paunch manure, hair and fleshing or
entrails, and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and the like, either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to a public sewer
the following described substances, materials, waters, or wastes, if it appears
likely, in the opinion of the city, that such wastes can harm either the
sewers, sewage treatment process, or equipment, or have an adverse affect on
the receiving stream or can otherwise endanger life, limb, or public property,
or constitute a nuisance. In forming an opinion as to the acceptability of
these wastes, the city will give consideration to such factors as the
quantities of subject wastes, in relation to flows and velocities in the
sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree or treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The
prohibited substances are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F or 0°
and 65°C;
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150°F or 0° and
65°C;
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder (excluding domestic), equipped with a
motor of three-fourths horse power or greater, shall be subject to the review
and approval of the city;
      (4)   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron, pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing heavy metals in excess of the
following, or a combination of the following in excess of 9.0 mg/l in the
effluent, or which, when blended with the waste in the trunk line, will have a
concentration in excess of 1.0 mg/l when it reaches the treatment plant,
notwithstanding, or wastes exerting an excessive chlorine requirement to such a
degree that any such material received in composite sewage at the sewage
treatment works exceeds the limits established by the city for such materials:
Chromium* 1.0 mg/l
Copper    0.5 mg/l
Cyanide   0.2 mg/l
Lead      2.0 mg/l
Nickel    1.0 mg/l
Tin       2.0 mg/l
Zinc      2.0 mg/l
Notes to Table:
* = Either the +3 valance or +6 valance, or a combination of both
 
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other waste or odor
producing substances in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the city as necessary, after treatment of the composite sewage
to meet requirements of the state, federal, or other public agencies of
jurisdiction of such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (7)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the city in compliance with
applicable state and federal regulations;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes having a pH outside of the range of 6.0 to
11.0;
      (9)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentration of inert suspended solids, such as, but
not limited to, Fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues, or of
dissolved solids, such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate;
         (b)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and/or
         (c)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
slugs.
      (10)   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.056 DISCHARGE OF SCAVENGER WASTES.
   (A)   Persons desiring to discharge scavenger wastes shall be required to
obtain a permit from the authority, on forms furnished by the Authority.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, SCAVENGER WASTES shall mean putrid or
offensive matter and the contents of all privies, septic tanks, and cesspools.
   (C)   The discharge of such wastes shall be made only at a location in the
sewage treatment plant designated on the permit by the authority.
   (D)   No scavenger wastes shall be discharged into the city sewer system.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.057 AUTHORITY OF CITY TO REJECT, REQUIRE PRETREATMENT OF CERTAIN WASTES.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters or wastes contain the substances
or possess the characteristics enumerated in §
53.055(C), which, in the judgment of the city, may have a deleterious affect
upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving water, or which
otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the city
may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition with discharge to
the public sewers;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges under the provisions
of this subchapter.
   (B)   If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design and installation of the plant and equipment shall be subject to the
review and approval of the city and subject to the requirements of all
applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 53.058 MAINTENANCE OF PRETREATMENT, FLOW EQUALIZING FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner, at their expense.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 53.059 GREASE, OIL, SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the city, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes, sand, or other
harmful ingredients, except that such interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be a type and
capacity approved by the city, and shall be located as to be readily and easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection. All interceptors shall be supplied and
properly maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the
owner, at his or her expense.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 53.060 SURGE TANK FOR CERTAIN INDUSTRIES.
   Any industry whose hydraulic load is 10% or more of the total hydraulic load
to the system must provide pretreatment in the form of a surge tank to equalize
the flow over a seven-day period. The surge tank must be approved by the city.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 53.061 CONTROL MANHOLES, OTHER FACILITIES FOR OBSERVATION; SAMPLING,
MEASUREMENT OF INDUSTRIAL WASTE.
   (A)   It shall be required by the city that the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes install a suitable
control manhole. When deemed necessary, the city may require additional meters
and other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation,
sampling, and measurement of the waste.
   (B)   The manhole provided for in this section shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the city. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense and
shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 53.062 METHOD OF MEASURING, TESTING, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this subchapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of “Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater,” published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole, or upon suitable samples taken at
the control manhole.
   (B)   Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the affect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property.
   (C)   In order for the city to properly evaluate the affect of the waste on
the system, an industry must submit, along with the plans and other required
data, an industrial waste questionnaire form. These forms are available from
the city.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 53.063 AGREEMENT FOR ACCEPTANCE OF INDUSTRIAL WASTE FOR PRETREATMENT.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial concern
whereby industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the industrial concern.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 53.064 SURCHARGES.
   (A)   In Table I below, a schedule of surcharges has been established which
takes into consideration the total costs for the treatment of waste.
   (B)   This schedule (Table I) can be amended from time to time by ordinance
of the City Council. In this schedule, a BOD5 concentration of zero to 600 ppm
and a pH in the range of 6.0 through 11.0 pH units is considered to be standard
sewage waste.
   (C)   Any sewage having a concentration in excess of 600 ppm BOD5, or having
a pH of less than 6.0 units or greater than 11.0 units, is subject to a
surcharge in accordance with the schedule set forth in Table I.
   (D)   This surcharge schedule is based on the equitable recovery of waste
treatment costs as required for those cities receiving federal assistance for
the construction of wastewater treatment facilities and is in compliance with
the regulations 18 C.F.R. § 601.34.
   (E)   The issuance of this surcharge schedule does not in itself permit nor
does it imply that any such waste will be received by the city for treatment.
   (F)   In each instance, the actual acceptance of the waste for treatment is
subject to review and evaluation by the city.
   (G)   In some instances, pretreatment may be required before acceptance of
the waste for final treatment by the city.
Table I
Table of Sewer Surcharge Rates
          A                           B
Rate BOD5 Cost per Million Gallons pH Cost per Million Gallons
Table I
Table of Sewer Surcharge Rates
                 A                                  B
Rate BOD5        Cost per Million Gallons pH        Cost per Million Gallons
0    0-600       $0.00                    6.0-11.0  $0.00
1    600-800     $9.50                    1.0-2.0   $3
                                          2.0-3.0   $3
2    800-1,000   $28.50                   3.0-4.0   $2
                                          4.0-5.0   $2
3    1,000-1,200 $47                      5.0-6.0   $2
4    1,200-1,400 $67                      -         -
5    1,400-1,600 $85                      11.0-12.0 $1.50
6    1,600-1,800 $104                     12.0-13.0 $3
7    1,800-2,000 $122.50                  -         -
Notes to Table:
(1)   Total charge = BOD surcharge + pH surcharge
(2)   The city will require independent engineers to conduct a 24 hour
composite sampling and analysis of the wastewater at least once per three
months. This analysis will be the basis for determining the surcharge.
(3)   The cost per million gallons shown under columns A and B would be
subject to yearly adjustments
 
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 53.065 DISCHARGES INTO STORM SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   No person or activity shall discharge or cause to be discharged
sanitary wastewater into any stormwater channel, conduit, ditch, or pipe, or
any other part of the storm sewer system.
   (B)   Uncontaminated cooling water may be discharged into the storm sewer
system, provided proper permits and authorizations are obtained, but may not be
discharged into the sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998) Penalty, see §
53.999
**** PRIVATE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS ****
§ 53.080 WHEN REQUIRED.
   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions
contained herein, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage
disposal system complying with the provisions of the State Department of Health
and Environmental Control (“DHEC”).
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 53.081 TYPE, CAPACITY, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   The type, capacity, location, and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of DHEC.
   (B)   No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 53.082 PERMIT TO INSTALL.
   Before commencement of construction of a private sewer disposal system,
other than a septic tank, privy, privy vault, or cesspool for a single-family
dwelling, the owner shall first obtain a written permit from the County Health
Department. Application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by
the County Health Department, which the applicant shall supplement by any
plans, specifications, and other information deemed necessary by the County
Health Department. A permit and inspection fee shall be paid to the city at the
time the application for permit is filed.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 53.083 INSPECTION.
   (A)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the County
Health Department.
   (B)   The County Health Department shall be allowed to inspect the work at
any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall
notify the County Health Department when the work is ready for final inspection
and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within two working days of the receipt of notice by the County Health
Department.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 53.084 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   The owner shall operate and maintain private sewage disposal facilities in a
sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the city.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 53.085 ABANDONMENT WHEN PUBLIC SEWER BECOMES AVAILABLE.
   (A)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to the
public sewer in compliance with this subchapter and any septic tanks,
cesspools, and similar private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned,
cleaned of sludge and filled with clean, bank-on gravel or dirt, within 60 days
of notification to do so by the city.
   (B)   In the event the property is served, at the passing of this
subchapter, by a private disposal system, that owner may continue to operate
that private disposal system until such time as that system may no longer be
operable.
   (C)   The owner will still be required to pay the minimum monthly payment
for residential users of $25 per month upon the passage of this subchapter.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 53.086 SUBCHAPTER DOES NOT NULLIFY REQUIREMENTS OF STATE OR COUNTY HEALTH
OFFICER.
   No provision of this subchapter shall be construed to nullify any additional
requirements that may be imposed by the State or County Health Officer.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
**** COMPLIANCE ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 53.100 FAILURE TO MEET REQUIREMENTS.
   In the event that a user of the city sanitary sewer system fails to comply
with the requirements of this chapter, the city may institute the compliance
enforcement procedures set forth in this subchapter or seek injunctive relief
for non-compliance. The city shall also have authority to seek or assess civil
penalties in at least the amount of $500 a day for each violation.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 53.101 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Whenever the city finds that any user has violated or is violating this
chapter, its wastewater discharge permit, or any prohibitions, limitations, or
requirements contained therein, the city may serve upon such user a written
notice stating the nature of the violations. Within ten days of receipt of the
notice, the user shall make a written reply to the notice.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 53.102 USER REPLY.
   The user’s reply shall state whether he or she admits or denies the
violation, how the violation occurred, the reasons for it, and the steps being
taken to correct the violation and steps being taken to prevent its occurrence
in the future. The user’s reply shall include a schedule for completion of the
corrective actions.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 53.103 FAILURE TO REPLY TO NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   If the user fails to reply to the notice of violation as hereinabove
provided or if the reply is not satisfactory or the violation continues for 20
days after the date of the notice of violation, the city shall cause to be
scheduled a show cause hearing before the city to consider the violation and
the consequences of continued violation.
   (B)   A notice shall be served on the user specifying the time and place of
the hearing to be held by the city on the violation, the reasons why the action
is to be taken, the proposed enforcement action, and directing the user to show
cause before the city why the proposed enforcement should not be taken.
   (C)   The notice of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered
or certified mail (return receipt requested) at least ten days before the
hearing. Service may be made on any agent or officer of a corporation or other
entity.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 53.104 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   The City Council may conduct the show cause hearing provided above and do
the following, or may designate any city official or other qualified person to
serve as a hearing examiner to do the following:
   (A)   Issue, in the name of the city, notices of hearings, request the
attendance and testimony of witnesses, and the production of evidence relevant
to any matter involved in such hearing;
   (B)   Take evidence;
   (C)   Establish facts, receive data, and develop a compliance schedule;
   (D)   If a hearing examiner is designated, he or she shall prepare and
transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including transcripts and other
evidence, together with his or her recommendations to City Council for action
thereon.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 53.105 HEARING TESTIMONY.
   At any hearing held pursuant to this chapter, testimony must be taken under
oath and recorded stenographically or electronically.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 53.106 REMEDIES.
   If the City Council determines that a user is in violation of any provision
of this chapter after the hearing upon the rule to show cause and no further
adjudicatory hearing is needed, the city may take the following actions in
addition to any other actions authorized by this chapter or applicable state or
federal laws or regulations:
   (A)   Prohibit the wastewater from entering the city’s wastewater treatment
system;
   (B)   Require pretreatment necessary to reduce or eliminate pollutants so
that the discharge will not violate this chapter;
   (C)   Require wastewater storage or flow equalization facilities necessary
to control the quantities and rates of discharge;
   (D)   Require payment to cover the added handling and treatment costs not
covered by existing user charges. However, payment, other than for civil
penalties, is not an alternative to pretreatment for prohibited wastes and/or
for discharges which exceed maximum limitations defined in this chapter;
   (E)   Develop and apply a mandatory schedule requiring the user to be in
full compliance within a specified period of time;
   (F)   Take other remedial action necessary to achieve the purpose of these
regulations, including a civil penalty and assessment of costs or expenses as
provided by this chapter; and/or
   (F)   Revoke or suspend the offending user’s wastewater discharge permit or
access to the system.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 53.107 FALSIFYING INFORMATION.
   Any person who knowingly makes any false statements, representations, or
certifications in any application, record, report, plan, or other document
filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter or wastewater
discharge permit, or who falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders
inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under this chapter may be
subject to a fine or imprisonment under applicable state or federal law.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 53.108 EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   The city shall have the authority, without prior notice to the user,
immediately to halt or prevent any discharge of pollutants to its system which
reasonably appears to the city to present an immediate danger to public safety
or welfare or the environment, or threatens to interfere significantly with the
proper operation of the city sanitary sewer system.
   (B)   If the emergency is not resolved within a reasonable period of time,
the city shall institute the service suspension procedures provided in §
53.109.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 53.109 SERVICE SUSPENSION.
   In the event of an emergency as described in the preceding section and in
addition to the powers granted therein, the city, after giving the user five
days’ written notice, may suspend sewer service pending a show cause hearing as
provided herein.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
§ 53.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any user who is found to have violated any provision in this
chapter or the orders, rules, regulations, or permits of the city may be fined
by the city not more than $500 for each day of violation as a civil penalty.
Each day on which a violation shall occur or continue shall be deemed a
separate and distinct violation. This shall be considered a civil fine or
penalty.
      (2)   In addition to the civil penalties provided herein, the city may
assess against the user reasonable attorneys fees, hearing costs, reporters’
fees, and other expenses incurred by the city for any hearings or enforcement
procedures.
      (3)   Net proceeds from collection of civil penalties and fines shall be
deposited in the City Utilities Fund.
   (B)   After the city determines a violation has occurred, it may issue an
order to the user responsible for the discharge, directing as follows:
      (1)   Order the user to close his or her facility;
      (2)   Order the user to cease operation of the process or processes which
are the source of the pollutant(s) interfering with the waste treatment; or
      (3)   Dig up and disconnect the users’ sewage connection.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any developer, contractor, or any other
person to make any connection to the city sewer system prior to approval by the
State Department of Health and Environmental Control, as set forth in §
53.001(D), and each day that such unauthorized connection exists prior to
approval by the said State Department of Health and Environmental Control shall
constitute a separate offense, and be punishable by a fine of $200 per day.
      (2)   Such fine shall be a lien upon the property affected thereby until
the fine be paid in full.
      (3)   When any such unauthorized connection is discovered, it shall be
presumed prima facie that such unauthorized connection was made by the
developer.
(Ord. 98-0720, passed 8-17-1998)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   State traffic laws adopted by reference
   
70.02   Adoption of rules, regulations promulgated by State Highway and Public
Transportation Department
   
70.03   Enforcement; Department designated
   
70.04   Powers of Chief of Police generally
   
70.05   Processions, parades
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-references:
   Abandoned motor vehicles, see §§
90.085
 through
90.092
   Corners visibility at street intersections, see zoning ordinance
   Driving in parks, see §
93.02
   Driving over fire hose, see §
92.02
   Impeding of traffic by peddlers, see §
111.13
   Obstructing streets, see §
152.02(A)
   Placing handbills on automobiles, see §
130.01
   Vehicles causing excessive noise, see §
90.016
Statutory references:
   Municipal authority to regulate traffic, see S.C. Code § 56-5-30
   Municipal court authority to try violations of state traffic laws, see S.C.
Code § 56-5-6150
§ 70.01 STATE TRAFFIC LAWS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   All vehicles shall be operated, equipped, and parked, and all pedestrians
shall be regulated, in the city in accordance with and in conformity with S.C.
Code § 56-5, as amended, relating to the operation, equipment, and parking of
vehicles, and the regulation of pedestrians, which the state reference is
hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this title as if set out at
length herein, except those provisions relating solely to the State Department
of Highways and Public Transportation, those provisions which, by their nature,
cannot apply within the city, and those provisions, the penalty for the
violation of which shall be found in §
70.99(B).
(Prior Code, § 17-1) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 ADOPTION OF RULES, REGULATIONS PROMULGATED BY STATE HIGHWAY AND PUBLIC
TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT.
   All rules and regulations promulgated by the State Department of Highways
and Public Transportation, as authorized by the laws of the stat,e to have,
when promulgated, the full force and effect of law, shall, upon being
promulgated by such Department, become a part of this title, and the violation
of any such rule or regulation shall be a violation of this title.
(Prior Code, § 17-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 ENFORCEMENT; DEPARTMENT DESIGNATED.
   The Police Department is hereby authorized to administer and enforce the
provisions of this title.
(Prior Code, § 17-3)
§ 70.04 POWERS OF CHIEF OF POLICE GENERALLY.
   The Chief of Police, upon approval of such officer’s recommendations
therefor by resolution of the City Council, shall have power to designate, lay
off, and indicate by appropriate signs and markings: Parking spaces and zones,
parking meter spaces within the parking meter zones designated by the City
Council, no-parking zones, limited parking zones, loading zones, safety zones,
school zones, hospital zones, quiet zones, no passing zones, traffic zones
other than the above, pedestrian crosswalks, through streets, stop streets,
one-way streets, three- and four-lane streets, play streets, bus stops, and
taxicab stands. The Chief of Police shall cause to be erected and installed
such traffic-control devices, signs, signals, and markings as such officer may
deem necessary.
(Prior Code, § 17-4)
§ 70.05 PROCESSIONS, PARADES.
   No funeral, procession, or parade, except those of the forces of the United
States Military Forces or the State Military Forces, and the forces of the
Police and Fire Departments, shall occupy, march, or proceed along any street,
except in accordance with and as provided in a permit issued by the Chief of
Police.
(Prior Code, § 17-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate parades and demonstrations, see S.C. Code § 56-5-2520
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this title for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions adopted in §
70.01 shall be fined an amount, which exceeds a fine of $200 or imprisonment
for 30 days. Any person violating these provisions shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 17-1)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Restriction on use of highways
   
71.02   Careless driving
§ 71.01 RESTRICTION ON USE OF HIGHWAYS.
   When necessary to preserve order to protect life, limb, or property, the
City Council or City Manager, or officers of the Police Department or Fire
Department, may order or direct that any highway, or part thereof, shall not be
used by persons, animals, or vehicles, or by certain classes of vehicles or
animals, and it shall be unlawful for any person to violate such order.
(Prior Code, § 17-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.02 CARELESS DRIVING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to operate a vehicle above
the posted speed limit, or in a careless manner in disregard of the safety of
persons or property upon any street, sidewalk, alleyway, or parking area,
public or private. The offense of careless driving is to include any points
assessible moving violation of S.C. Code Title 56, Laws Governing Motor
Vehicles on the Roadways.
(Ord. passed 10-16-2006) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code Title 56
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   Prohibited parking between curb or roadway lines and adjacent property
lines
   
72.02   Prohibited parking for certain purposes
   
72.03   Bus and taxicab stands
   
72.04   Parking in alleys
   
72.05   Loading, unloading
   
72.06   Illegally parked vehicles; impoundment
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned motor vehicles, see §§
90.085 through
90.092
Statutory reference:
   Stopping, standing, and parking, see S.C. Code §§ 56-5-2510 et seq.
§ 72.01 PROHIBITED PARKING BETWEEN CURB OR ROADWAY LINES AND ADJACENT PROPERTY
LINES.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon that portion of a street
between the curb line, or the lateral line of a roadway, and the adjacent
property line.
(Prior Code, § 17-20) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.02 PROHIBITED PARKING FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal
purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying it for sale; or
   (B)   Washing, greasing, or repairing such vehicle, except repairs
necessitated by an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 17-21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.03 BUS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   (A)   Use by designated vehicles. The driver of a bus or taxicab shall not
stand or park upon any street in any business district at any place other than
at a bus stop or taxicab stand, respectively, except that this provision shall
not prevent the driver of any taxicab from temporarily stopping in accordance
with other stopping or parking regulations at any place for the purpose of, and
while actually engaged in, loading or unloading passengers.
   (B)   Use by other vehicles. No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle
other than a bus in a bus stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when
any such stop or stand has been officially designated and appropriately signed,
except that the driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for
the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers
when such stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter
or about to enter such zone.
(Prior Code, § 17-22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.04 PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic.
(Prior Code, § 17-23) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.05 LOADING, UNLOADING.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose
or period of time other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of
passengers in any place marked as a passenger zone during hours when the
regulations applicable to such passenger zones are effective, and then only for
a period not to exceed three minutes.
      (2)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading or delivery, or pickup
and loading, of materials in any place marked as a loading zone during hours
when the provisions applicable to loading zones are in effect. In no case shall
the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
(Prior Code, § 17-24)
   (B)   In places where, and at hours when, stopping for the loading or
unloading of merchandise or materials is permitted, vehicles used for the
transportation of merchandise or materials may back into the curb to take on or
discharge loads where the owner of such vehicle holds a special permit issued
in the discretion of the Chief of Police granting such owner such privilege,
and such permit shall be either in the possession of the driver or on the
vehicle at the time such vehicle is backed against the curb to take on or
discharge a load, and it shall be unlawful for any owner or driver to violate
any of the terms or conditions of any such special permit.
(Prior Code, § 17-25)
   (C)   All persons loading or unloading goods at any business house or
establishment in a business district having an accessible back or side entrance
shall use such back or side entrance for the purpose of loading or unloading of
goods; and in all cases where there exists an accessible back or side entrance,
it shall be unlawful to load or unload goods across any sidewalk so as to
obstruct the flow of persons using said sidewalk or traffic in front of said
business house or establishment.
(Prior Code, § 17-26)
Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.06 ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES; IMPOUNDMENT.
   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a street in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, such officer is hereby
authorized to move such vehicle, or require the driver or other person in
charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position off the paved or main-
traveled part of such street; and whenever any police officer finds a vehicle
apparently abandoned upon a public street, or finds the same unattended upon
any public street where such vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic,
such officer is hereby authorized to provide for the removal of such vehicle to
the nearest garage or other place of safety, and the owner of such vehicle
shall pay all charges incidental to the removal and storage of said vehicle
prior to the surrender of the vehicle to the owner.
(Prior Code, § 17-27)
Cross-reference:
   Junk vehicles, see §§
90.085 through
90.092
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   The speed limit on all streets within the city is 35 mph unless otherwise
posted.
(Prior Code, § 17-7)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Water supply facilities; sewage disposal facilities
   
90.002   Eating establishments; sanitary, health standards
   
90.003   Abatement by city
Noise
   
90.015   General prohibition
   
90.016   Specific prohibitions
   
90.017   Tests and standards
   
90.018   Exemptions
Refuse; Junk
   
90.030   Dumping refuse
   
90.031   Discarded, abandoned iceboxes, refrigerators, similar receptacles
Property Maintenance
   
90.045   Upkeep of vacant lots
   
90.046   Responsibility of owner to maintain
   
90.047   Weeds, grass, other uncut growth prohibited
   
90.048   Clearing by town; costs to be paid by owners
   
90.049   Definitions
   
90.050   Public authority
   
90.051   Review procedure
   
90.052   Hearing
   
90.053   Costs to be a lien against the real property
   
90.054   Standard Housing Code to be the basis for determining fitness
   
90.055   Final appeal
Abandoned Personal Property
   
90.070   Definition
   
90.071   Exceptions
   
90.072   Removal and storage
   
90.073   Disposition
Abandoned Motor Vehicles
   
90.085   Definition
   
90.086   Abandonment unlawful
   
90.087   Exceptions
   
90.088   Removal
   
90.089   Disposition of vehicle; owner’s consent
   
90.090   Junk motor vehicles
   
90.091   Notice and order for removal
   
90.092   Failure to obey order
 
   
90.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Burning refuse on streets, see §
152.05
   Placing handbills on motor vehicles, see §
130.01
   Posting handbills, see §
130.02
Statutory reference:
   Municipal authority to require owners of property to maintain such property,
see S.C. Code § 5-7-80
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 90.001 WATER SUPPLY FACILITIES; SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   The following basic principles shall be enforced.
   (A)   All premises intended for human habitation, occupancy, or use shall be
provided with a supply of pure and wholesome water, neither connected with
unsafe water supplies nor subject to the hazards of backflow or back-siphonage.
   (B)   Plumbing fixtures, devices, and appurtenances shall be supplied with
water in sufficient volume and at pressures adequate to enable them to function
satisfactorily and without undue noise under all normal conditions of use.
   (C)   Plumbing shall be designed and adjusted to use the minimum quantity of
water consistent with proper performance and cleaning.
   (D)   Devices for heating and storing water shall be so designed and
installed as to prevent dangers from explosion through overheating.
   (E)   (1)   Every building having plumbing fixtures installed and intended
for human habitation, occupancy, or use on premises abutting on a street,
alley, or easement in which there is a public sewer shall have a connection
with the sewer.
      (2)   Where there is a sewer in the street, every house or building shall
be separately and independently connected with it, unless the Superintendent of
Waterworks shall give permission.
      (3)   The Superintendent is authorized to permit the owner of two or more
contiguous houses to connect them all with the sewer in the street through a
single opening.
      (4)   When possible, such connections shall be made directly in front of
the house.
   (F)   (1)   Each family dwelling unit on premises abutting on a sewer or
with a private sewage disposal system shall have at least one water closet and
one kitchen type sink.
      (2)   All other structures for human occupancy or use on premises
abutting on a sewer or with a private sewage disposal system shall have
adequate sanitary facilities, but in no case less than one water closet and one
other fixture for cleansing purposes.
   (G)   Plumbing fixtures shall be made of smooth non-absorbent material,
shall be free from concealed fouling surfaces, and shall be located in
ventilated enclosures.
   (H)   The drainage system shall be designed, constructed, and maintained so
as to guard against fouling, deposit of solids, and clogging; and with adequate
cleanouts so arranged that the pipes may be readily cleaned.
   (I)   The piping of the plumbing system shall be of durable material, free
from defective workmanship.
   (J)   Each vent terminal shall extend to the outer air and be so installed
as to minimize the possibilities of clogging and the return of foul air to the
building.
   (K)   The plumbing system shall be subjected to such tests as will
effectively disclose all leaks and defects in the work.
   (L)   No substance which will clog the pipes, produce explosive mixtures,
destroy the pipes or their joints, or interfere unduly with the sewage disposal
process shall be allowed to enter the building drainage system.
   (M)   Proper protection shall be provided to prevent contamination of food,
water, sterile goods, and similar materials by backflow of sewage. When
necessary, the fixture, device, or appliance shall be connected indirectly with
the building drainage system.
   (N)   No water closet shall be located in a room or compartment which is not
properly lighted and ventilated.
   (O)   If water closets or other plumbing fixtures are installed in buildings
where there is no sewer within a reasonable distance, suitable provisions shall
be made for disposing of the building sewage by some accepted method of sewage
treatment and disposal.
   (P)   Where a plumbing drainage system may be subject to backflow of sewage,
suitable provisions shall be made to prevent its overflow in the building.
   (Q)   Plumbing systems shall be maintained in a sanitary and serviceable
condition.
   (R)   All plumbing fixtures shall be so installed with regard to spacing as
to be reasonably accessible for their intended use.
   (S)   Plumbing shall be installed with due regard to preservation of the
strength of structural members and prevention of damage to walls and other
surfaces through fixture usage.
   (T)   Sewage or other waste from a plumbing system which may be deleterious
to surface or subsurface waters shall not be discharged into the ground or into
any waterway unless it has first been rendered innocuous through subjection to
some acceptable form of treatment.
(Prior Code, § 10-1)
Cross-reference:
   Water supply, see
Chapter 51
§ 90.002 EATING ESTABLISHMENTS; SANITARY, HEALTH STANDARDS.
   All eating establishments in the city shall be governed by and regulated in
regard to sanitation and health standards in accordance with the health laws of
the state.
(Prior Code, § 10-2)
§ 90.003 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   Upon the failure of any person to remove and abate the public nuisance, as
provided in this chapter, within ten days after notice from the Chief of
Police, the city may enter upon the premises of the person offending and cause
the nuisance to be removed, by removing the filth from the premises and by
cutting and removing the weeds, grass, and rank vegetation therefrom and charge
the expense thereof to the owner or tenant of the premises, and, upon failure
of such owner or tenant of the premises to pay the costs thereof, the city may
proceed to collect the same by an action at law, or by imposition and
foreclosure of a lien on the property.
(Prior Code, § 10-35)
**** NOISE ****
§ 90.015 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue, or cause to be made
or continued any excessive, unreasonably or unusually loud, or unnecessary
noise, or any noise which either annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers the
comfort, repose, health, peace, or safety of others within the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-20) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Public disorderly conduct, see S.C. Code § 16-17-530
§ 90.016 SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS.
   The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing, and
unnecessary noises in violation of this subchapter, but said enumeration shall
not be deemed to be exclusive:
   (A)   Horns, signaling devices, and the like. The sounding of any horn or
signaling device on any automobile, motorcycle, or other vehicle on any street
or public place in the city, except as a danger warning; the creation by means
of any such signaling device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the
sounding of any such device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time.
The use of any signaling device, except one operated by hand or electricity;
the use of any horn, whistle, or other device operated by engine exhaust; and
the use of any such signaling device when traffic is for any reason held up;
   (B)   Loudspeakers, musical instruments for advertising purposes, and the
like. To maintain and operate in any building or on any premises in the city
any radio device or mechanical musical instrument or device of any kind whereby
the sound therefrom is cast directly upon the public streets and places in such
manner as to create unreasonably loud, excessive, and disturbing noise, and
where such device is maintained and operated for advertising purposes or for
the purposes of attracting the attention of the passing public, or which is so
placed and operated that the sounds coming therefrom can be heard to the
annoyance or inconvenience of travelers upon any street or public place, or of
persons in neighboring premises, without first obtaining a permit therefor from
the City Clerk and Treasurer;
   (C)   Sound amplifying devices; permit required. To operate, or cause or
permit to be operated, any automatic or electric piano, phonograph, radio,
television, loudspeaker, or any instrument, or sound producing or sound
amplifying device, of like character so loudly as to unreasonably disturb
persons in the vicinity thereof or in such a manner as renders the same a
public nuisance; provided, however, that upon application to and approval by
the Chief of Police, written permits may be granted to responsible
organizations to broadcast programs of music, speech, general entertainment, or
announcements as a part of and incident to community celebration of national
state or city occasions, public festivals, or other outstanding events,
provided that traffic on the streets is not obstructed by reason thereof;
   (D)   Playing radio, phonograph, and the like, in loud manner. To play any
radio, television, phonograph, or musical instrument in such a manner or with
such volume as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of persons in
any dwelling, hotel, or other type of residence;
   (E)   Making for purpose of soliciting business. To make any noise upon a
public street or in such proximity thereto as to be distinctly and loudly
audible upon such street by any kind of crying, calling, or shouting, or by
means of any whistle, rattle, bell, gong, clapper, horn, hammer, drum, musical
instrument, or other device for the purpose of attracting attention or of
inviting patronage of any persons to any business whatsoever;
   (F)   Exhaust. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any
internal combustion engine, motor boat or any other motor vehicle except
through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises therefrom;
   (G)   Vehicles out of repair, and the like. The use of any automobile,
motorcycle, motorscooter, go cart, or any other vehicle so out of repair, or so
loaded or in such a manner as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding,
rattling, or other noise, including excessive noise coming through the exhaust
thereof; and
   (H)   Building construction equipment. In conducting any building operations
between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., to operate or use any pile
driver, steam shovel, pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam, or electric hoist or
other apparatus, the use of which is attended with loud or unusual noises in
any block in which more than one-half of the buildings on either side of the
street are used exclusively for residential purposes.
(Prior Code, § 10-21)
Cross-reference:
   Creation of noise by peddlers and solicitors, see §
111.12
   Noisy dogs, see §
91.18
§ 90.017 TESTS AND STANDARDS.
   The standards which shall be considered in determining whether a violation
of §§
90.015 and
90.016 exists shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
   (A)   The volume of the noise;
   (B)   The intensity of the noise;
   (C)   Whether the nature of the noise is usual or unusual;
   (D)   Whether the origin of the noise is natural or unnatural;
   (E)   The volume and intensity of the background noise, if any;
   (F)   The proximity of the noise to residential sleeping facilities;
   (G)   The nature and zoning of the area within which the noise emanates;
   (H)   The density of inhabitation of the area within which the noise
emanates;
   (I)   The time of the day or night the noise occurs;
   (J)   The duration of the noise;
   (K)   Whether the noise is recurrent, intermittent, or constant; and
   (L)   Whether the noise is produced by a commercial or non-commercial
activity.
(Prior Code, § 10-22)
§ 90.018 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following uses and activities shall be exempt from noise level
regulations:
   (A)   Noises of safety signals, warning devices, and emergency pressure
relief valves;
   (B)   Noises resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle, when
responding to an emergency call, or acting in the time of an emergency; and
   (C)   Any other noise resulting from activities of temporary duration
permitted by law and for which a license or permit has been granted by the city
in accordance with its ordinances and laws.
(Prior Code, § 10-23)
**** REFUSE; JUNK ****
§ 90.030 DUMPING REFUSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump or permit the dumping of refuse,
garbage, or any vegetable or animal matter that may be in any manner calculated
at the time, or thereafter, to create a nuisance which would endanger the
health or annoy the public upon premises, streets, or highways within the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-30) Penalty, see §
90.999
Cross-reference:
   Burning refuse on streets, see §
152.05
Statutory reference:
   Littering, see S.C. Code § 16-11-700
§ 90.031 DISCARDED, ABANDONED ICEBOXES, REFRIGERATORS, SIMILAR RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   Prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any owner or tenant of any
premises within the city to allow or permit any abandoned or discarded icebox,
refrigerator, trunk, chest, or other receptacle or container in which a person
might become imprisoned to be or remain on such premises if such icebox,
refrigerator, trunk, chest, or other receptacle or container has an airtight or
air-restricted lid, door, snap lock, latch, or other locking device without
first removing such lid, door, snap lock, latch, or other locking device.
   (B)   Definition. Any such container shall be considered and deemed
ABANDONED or DISCARDED when it is no longer used for the purpose for which it
was intended, and is unattended outside of any building or structure, or is
within an abandoned or unoccupied house, shed, barn, or other structure within
the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-31) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Abandoned refrigerators, see S.C. Code § 16-3-1010
**** PROPERTY MAINTENANCE ****
§ 90.045 UPKEEP OF VACANT LOTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or to permit to be
maintained any premises, including vacant lots or land, upon which grass,
weeds, undergrowth, trash, garbage, stagnant water, building materials, glass,
wood, or other matter deleterious to good health and public sanitation which is
permitted or caused to accumulate in any manner which is or may become a
nuisance causing injury to the health or welfare of the residents or the public
in the vicinity, or causing injury to neighboring property.
(Ord. 8-5-14, passed 8-18-2014) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.046 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER TO MAINTAIN.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Chief, or designated officer, to summon
the owner of such premises, and if, after fully hearing the matter and any
statement, the owner may make and any testimony he, she, or they may offer in
his, her, or their behalf concerning such matter, the Chief should find such
premises or lot in a condition tending to injure the public health, and shall
issue a written order or notice directed to the owner, directing and requiring
them within a reasonable and specified time to clear such premises or lot in
order to abate such nuisance.
(Ord. 8-5-14, passed 8-18-2014)
§ 90.047 WEEDS, GRASS, OTHER UNCUT GROWTH PROHIBITED.
   No person shall allow or permit weeds and grass to grow upon his, her, or
their improved premises within the corporate limits, uncut so as to render the
premises unsightly or unhealthy from the growth and accumulation of such grass,
weeds, and vegetable matter thereon.
(Ord. 8-5-14, passed 8-18-2014) Penalty, see §
90.999
Statutory reference:
   Noxious weeds and plants as determined by the Agriculture Commissioner, see
S.C. Code § 5-584
§ 90.048 CLEARING BY TOWN; COSTS TO BE PAID BY OWNERS.
   Should any property owner fail to keep such property cleared, after due
notice thereof to do so, the Chief of Police may cause the property to be kept
cleared and in a sanitary condition for health purposes or cleared for fire
prevention at a reasonable cost therefor, and the cost shall become a lien upon
the real estate. The expense shall be added to the annual tax levied on the
property and shall be collected in the same manner as the annual property tax.
(Ord. 8-5-14, passed 8-18-2014)
§ 90.049 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of New Ellenton, South Carolina.
   COUNCIL. The City Council for the City of New Ellenton, South Carolina.
   DWELLING. Any building or structure, or part thereof, used or occupied for
human habitation or intended to be so used, and includes any outhouses and
appurtenances belonging thereto or usually enjoyed therewith.
   DWELLING UNIT. A building or that portion of a building arranged, designed,
or constructed for the use of one family as a dwelling place.
   LIVING ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used for
living, sleeping, or cooking purposes, excluding bathrooms, toilet rooms,
laundries, pantries, foyers, or community corridors, closets, and storage
spaces.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing four or more dwelling and/or
rooming units having two or more stories.
   OCCUPANT. Any persons living and/or sleeping in a dwelling or rooming unit.
   OWNER. The record holder of the title.
   PARTIES IN INTEREST. All individuals, associations, corporations, and
others, including mortgagees, who have interests of record in a dwelling or
dwelling unit, and any who are in possession of a dwelling or dwelling unit.
   PUBLIC OFFICER. The Police Chief, or designated officer.
(Ord. 8-5-14, passed 8-18-2014)
§ 90.050 PUBLIC AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Police Chief, or designated officer, is hereby designated to
exercise the powers prescribed herein.
   (B)   In the exercise of these powers, the Director of Inspections may:
      (1)   Investigate the dwelling conditions in the municipality in order to
determine which dwellings therein are unfit for human habitation;
      (2)   Administer oaths and affirmations, examine, witnesses, and receive
evidence;
      (3)   Enter upon premises for the purpose of making examinations,
provided such entries be made in such manner as to cause the least possible
inconvenience to the persons in possession;
      (4)   Fix the duties of such officers, agents, and employees as he, she,
or they deem necessary to carry out the purposes of this subchapter; and
      (5)   Delegate any of his or her functions and powers under this section
to such officers and agents as he, she, or they may designate.
(Ord. 8-5-14, passed 8-18-2014)
§ 90.051 REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   Whenever a petition is filed with the Police Chief by a public authority or
by at least five residents of the city charging that any dwelling is unfit for
human habitation, or whenever it appears to the Police Chief that any dwelling
is unfit for human habitation, the Police Chief may conduct a preliminary
investigation of such charges, and should it appear that a basis exists for
such charges, the Police Chief shall issue and cause to be served upon the
owner of, and all parties in interest in, such dwelling a complaint stating the
charges. The complaint shall contain a notice that a hearing shall be held
before the Chief, or his, her, or their designated agent not less than ten, nor
more than 30, days after the date of service of the complaint. The complaint
and notice shall specify the time and place of the hearing and shall advise the
owner and parties in interest of their right to file an answer to the
complaint, to appear in person or otherwise at the hearing, and to give
testimony at the hearing. The complaint and notice shall further specify that
the rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be
controlling at the hearing.
(Ord. 8-5-14, passed 8-18-2014)
§ 90.052 HEARING.
   (A)   After such notice and hearing, should the Police Chief determine that
the dwelling is unfit for human habitation, he, she, or they shall, in writing,
state his, her, or their findings of fact in support of such determination and
shall issue and caused to be served upon the owner an order to repair, alter,
or improve the dwelling to render it fit for human habitation, or to remove or
demolish the dwelling.
   (B)   In the event the Police Chief determines that the cost of repair,
alteration, or improvement exceeds 75% of the value of the dwelling in its
existing condition, the Police Chief shall issue a order requiring the owner to
demolish the dwelling within 30 days of the date of the order.
   (C)   To determine the value of any dwelling, the Police Chief shall adopt
the market value of the dwelling, excluding land value, as reported by the
County Tax Assessor’s determination of market value may be considered in
determining the value of the dwelling for purposes of enforcing these
provisions.
   (D)   In order to determine the cost of repair, alteration, or improvements,
he, she, or they shall utilize cost data contained in the publication, means
repair and remodeling cost data commercial or residential, and data contained
in HomeTech Remodellng and Renovation Cost Estimator.
(Ord. 8-5-14, passed 8-18-2014)
§ 90.053 COSTS TO BE A LIEN AGAINST THE REAL PROPERTY.
   If the owner fails to comply with an order to remove and demolish the
dwelling, the Chief may cause such dwelling to be demolished and the amount of
the cost of such demolition shall constitute a lien against the real property
upon which such cost was incurred.
(Ord. 8-5-14, passed 8-18-2014)
§ 90.054 STANDARD HOUSING CODE TO BE THE BASIS FOR DETERMINING FITNESS.
   The minimum standards for basic equipment and facilities set forth in the
Title 31, Chapter 155, the S.C. Code of Laws, Article I, § 31.152 are hereby
adopted as standards for use by the Police Chief or his or her designee in
making determinations as to the fitness of dwellings for human habitation.
(Ord. 8-5-14, passed 8-18-2014)
§ 90.055 FINAL APPEAL.
   Any person affected by an order issued by the Police Chief may enter an
appeal to City Council. Thereafter, any person affected by an order of the City
Council may petition the Circuit Court as provided for by S.C. Code § 31-15-3,
as amended.
(Ord. 8-5-14, passed 8-18-2014)
**** ABANDONED PERSONAL PROPERTY ****
§ 90.070 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Shall be determined to have been abandoned under one or
more of the following circumstances:
      (1)   Left upon a street or highway in violation of a law or ordinance
controlling such personal property;
      (2)   Failing to display a current registration, license, or certificate
which may be required for such personal property;
      (3)   Partially dismantled or damaged and left out of doors, in an
uncovered, unscreened, or unenclosed state;
      (4)   Left on property owned or operated by the city without its consent,
or on any public street or right-of-way of the city for a period in excess of
24 hours; and
      (5)   Left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant, or lessee thereof for a period in excess of 24 hours.
(Prior Code, § 10-40) (Ord. 3-8-82, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Storage of junk, see S.C. Code § 16-3-1010
§ 90.071 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to junk dealers in the operation of their
businesses who possess a current business license.
(Prior Code, § 10-41) (Ord. 3-8-82, passed - -)
§ 90.072 REMOVAL AND STORAGE.
   The Chief of Police shall have the authority to remove such personal
property and store the same in a storage area for safekeeping at the direction
of the city; provided, however, if located on private property, no such
personal property shall be so removed from the premises by the city without the
written authorization of the owner, lessee, or occupant of the premises, if
known, unless the personal property has been declared to be a safety hazard or
other public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 10-42) (Ord. 3-8-82, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Powers of municipalities to declare and abate nuisances, see S.C. Code § 5-
7-30
§ 90.073 DISPOSITION.
   (A)   The person responsible or the owner of any such personal property, if
it can be determined after a reasonable search, shall be given written notice
by the City Clerk and Treasurer to claim and remove the property at such
person’s own expense within 30 days of said notice.
   (B)   Should the owner fail to claim the property or refuse to pay the costs
within 30 days after receipt of the notice, or should the owner’s identity or
whereabouts be unknown and unascertainable after a reasonable search, the
stored property may be sold after 30 days’ public notice has been given by the
City Clerk and Treasurer before the date of the sale and after the property has
been held for not less than 30 days.
   (C)   Such property may be sold by public sale after one public notice, but
no such property may be sold or disposed of until its value has been determined
in writing by at least two disinterested dealers of such property or
appraisers.
   (D)   Personal property of an appraised value of less than$250 may be
disposed of by any means in the discretion of the storing agent of the city.
   (E)   (1)   The proceeds of any sale shall be forwarded to the City Clerk
and Treasurer who shall pay from the proceeds the cost of removal, storage,
investigation as to ownership, and sale, in that order.
      (2)   (a)   If after the sale, the ownership at the time of removal is
established satisfactorily to the City Clerk and Treasurer, the owner shall be
paid so much of the proceeds as remains after payment of the foregoing costs.
         (b)   Otherwise, any remaining proceeds shall be deposited after 90
days in the General Fund of the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-42) (Ord. 3-8-82, passed - -)
**** ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES ****
§ 90.085 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   VEHICLE. Shall be determined to have been abandoned under one or more of the
following circumstances:
      (1)   Left upon a street or highway in violation of a law or ordinance
controlling traffic or prohibited parking;
      (2)   Failing to display a current license plate;
      (3)   Partially dismantled and left out of doors;
      (4)   Incapable of self-propulsion or being moved in the manner for which
it was originally intended and partially dismantled and left out of doors;
      (5)   Left on property owned or operated by the city without its consent,
other than a street or right-of-way, for a period in excess of 24 hours;
      (6)   Left on private property without the consent of the owner,
occupant, or lessee thereof for a period in excess of 24 hours; or
      (7)   Left on any public street or right-of-way of the city for a period
in excess of seven days.
(Prior Code, § 10-50) (Ord. 3-8-82, passed - -; Ord. passed 10-16-2006)
§ 90.086 ABANDONMENT UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon any motor vehicle, including
junk motor vehicles, on any public street, right-of-way, or public grounds, or
upon any privately owned property; and it shall be unlawful for any person
controlling privately owned property to abandon or to permit the abandonment
thereupon of any motor vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 10-51) (Ord. 3-8-82, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.999
Cross-reference:
   Impounding, see §
72.06
Statutory reference:
   Storage of junk, see S.C. Code § 16-3-1010
§ 90.087 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to automobile dealers or junk dealers in the
operation of their businesses who possess a current business license; provided,
however, this shall not exempt such dealers from the provisions of §
90.085, under the definition of “vehicle,” divisions (2), (3), and (4).
(Prior Code, § 10-52) (Ord. 3-8-82, passed - -)
§ 90.088 REMOVAL.
   (A)   The person responsible, or the registered owner of any vehicle if it
can be determined after a reasonable search, or the owner of the premises on
which the vehicle is located, or all, shall be given notice as prescribed in
this subchapter to remove and dispose of an abandoned vehicle at such person’s
own expense, failing which such person shall be in violation of this
subchapter.
   (B)   If the person responsible or owner cannot be determined or has not
complied within the time prescribed by the notice, the vehicle, if located on
public property, at the discretion of the city, may be removed to a storage
area for safekeeping at the direction of the city. Written notice of the
removal shall be promptly given to the registered owner of the vehicle and to
any holders of any lien of record in the office of the State Department of
Motor Vehicles if it can be determined after a reasonable search. The city may
remove the vehicle without prior notice when the vehicle constitutes a safety
hazard or other public nuisance.
   (C)   If located on private property, no vehicle shall be so removed from
the premises by the city without the written authorization of the owner of the
vehicle, if known, or the owner, lessee, or occupant of the premises, unless
the vehicle has been declared to be a safety hazard or other public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 10-53) (Ord. 3-8-82, passed - -)
§ 90.089 DISPOSITION OF VEHICLE; OWNER’S CONSENT.
   (A)   (1)   The owner of any removed vehicle, before obtaining possession
thereof, shall pay to the city all reasonable costs incidental to its removal
and storage and the locating of the owner.
      (2)   Should the owner fail or refuse to pay the costs within 20 days
after receipt of the notice, or should the owner’s identity or whereabouts be
unknown and unascertainable after a reasonable search and after notice as
prescribed herein, the stored vehicle may be sold after 20 days’ notice has
been given to the Department of Motor Vehicles before the date of the sale and
after the vehicle has been held for not less than 30 days; provided, further,
that division (B) below shall govern disposition of any junk motor vehicles.
      (3)   The vehicle may be sold by public sale, after one public notice,
but no vehicle may be sold or disposed of until its value has been determined
in writing by at least two disinterested dealers or garage operators.
      (4)   A vehicle of an appraised value of less than$500 may be disposed of
by any means in the discretion of the storing agent of the city.
      (5)   The proceeds of any sale shall be forwarded to the Clerk and
Treasurer, who shall pay from the proceeds the costs of removal, storage,
investigation as to ownership, and sale and other liens, in that order. If
after the sale, the ownership at the time of removal is established
satisfactorily to the Clerk and Treasurer, the owner shall be paid so much of
the proceeds as remains after the payment of the foregoing costs and liens;
otherwise, any remaining proceeds shall be deposited, after 90 days, in the
General Fund of the city.
(Prior Code, § 10-54)
   (B)   With a vehicle owner’s written consent, the city, at its own
discretion, may remove and immediately dispose of any vehicle as a junk motor
vehicle regardless of value or condition of the vehicle and without waiting the
aforesaid period. Costs may be assessed to the vehicle owner.
(Prior Code, § 10-56)
(Ord. 3-8-82, passed - -)
§ 90.090 JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Property owners are required to remove dismantled or junk vehicles. It
is a public nuisance to keep or place any abandoned, wrecked, dismantled,
inoperative, junk, or partially dismantled motor vehicle or parts on public or
private property.
   (B)   (1)   JUNK VEHICLES are defined as any motor vehicle that has expired
or missing license plates or that is wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled,
inoperable, or discarded.
      (2)   Vehicles enclosed within a building or held in connection with a
business properly operated in an appropriate zoning district are not considered
a nuisance.
      (3)   Antique autos and vehicles designed for racing that are operable
and covered to screen them from public view are also not considered a nuisance.
   (C)   Junk vehicles brought to the attention of the Police Department must
be removed within 15 days after receipt of a notice by the property owner.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 90.091 NOTICE AND ORDER FOR REMOVAL.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to summon the owner of such
property mentioned in §§
90.085 and
90.089(A) to appear before the Municipal Judge and, if after fully hearing the
matter and any statement the owner may make and any testimony the owner may
offer in such owner’s behalf concerning the matter, the judge should find such
property to contain an abandoned or junked automobile in a condition tending to
be a hazard to the health and general welfare of the citizens of the city, the
judge shall issue a written order of notice directing the owner, within 30
days, to remove from such person’s property such abandoned or junked
automobile.
(Prior Code, § 10-57) (Ord. 3-8-82, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.092 FAILURE TO OBEY ORDER.
   Should any property owner fail to obey the order of the judge, the city may
cause such automobile to be removed, and the cost of removal shall be an
assessment against the property owner and the expense shall be added to the
annual tax levied and shall be collected in the same manner as the annual tax
levy.
(Prior Code, § 10-58) (Ord. 3-8-82, passed - -)
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Individuals who do not remove vehicles, as stated in §
90.090, are subject to fines up to $500 for each day the violation is not
corrected.
   (B)   In addition to or in lieu of the penalty provided in §
90.092, any person who fails to obey any such lawful order of the judge shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 10-58)
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. 3-8-82, passed - -)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   City designated as bird sanctuary
   
91.02   Cruelty to animals
   
91.03   Livestock
Dogs
   
91.15   Leash required
   
91.16   Rabies; vaccinations
   
91.17   Vicious dogs prohibited
   
91.18   Noisy dogs
   
91.19   Impounding
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animals creating hazard on streets, see §
152.03
   Riding animals in parks, see §
93.02
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 91.01 CITY DESIGNATED AS BIRD SANCTUARY.
   (A)   The entire area embraced within the corporate limits of the city is
hereby designated as a bird sanctuary.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to trap, hunt, shoot, or attempt to shoot or
molest in any way or manner any wild fowl or bird, or to rob birds’ nests or
wild fowl nests; provided, however, if starlings or similar birds are found to
be congregating in such numbers, in a particular locality, that they constitute
a menace to health or property in the opinion of the proper authorities of the
city, then in such event, said authorities shall meet with representatives of
the Audubon Society, Bird Club, Garden Club, or Humane Society, or as many
clubs as are to be found existing in the city after having been given at least
three days’ notice of the time and place of meeting to the representatives of
said clubs.
   (C)   If, as a result of said meeting, no satisfactory alternative is found
to abate such nuisance, then the birds may be destroyed in such numbers and in
such manner as is advisable by said authorities under the supervision of the
Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 3-1) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Destroying bird’s nests, see S.C. Code § 50-11-30
   Killing mocking birds or Carolina wrens, see S.C. Code § 50-11-2010
   Prohibition against killing non-game birds, see S.C. Code § 50-1-30
§ 91.02 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   Whoever overloads, overdrives, overworks, tortures, torments, wantonly
beats, bruises, or cuts, or whoever by working when in an unfit condition, or
in any way inflicts unnecessary pain or suffering upon any animal, or whoever
does not provide sufficient food and shelter for the same, whether such persons
are the owners thereof, or have the temporary charge or custody of the same,
shall be punished as stated in §
91.99.
(Prior Code, § 3-2) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Ill treatment and cruelty to animals in general, see S.C. Code §§ 47-1-40,
47-1-50
§ 91.03 LIVESTOCK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow such person’s cattle,
horses, mules, hogs, goats, sheep, or other livestock or animals to be hitched,
grazed, or to run at large in any of the streets, parks, or highways within the
corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   (1)   Chickens and ducks will be allowed within the city limits on
residential property under the following conditions.
         (a)   Only on residential property of one-half acre in size and above.
         (b)   Fowl will be kept a minimum of 25 feet from any property line.
         (c)   Fowl cannot run at large on any public property or neighboring
property.
         (d)   No roosters can be kept within the city limits.
         (e)   No more than six hens shall be kept or maintained on a single
premises. Any person owning or harboring more than six chickens as of the
effective date of the ordinance codified in this section must register his or
her chickens within 45 days of the effective date to be considered exempt from
the limitation.
         (f)   No person can slaughter any chickens on his or her premises.
         (g)   Chickens shall not be kept for commercial purposes.
      (2)   (a)   Any fowl, bird, or animals which shall, by sound or odor,
interfere with materially or affect the health, comfort, peace, or quiet of the
citizens is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
         (b)   Any person harboring, keeping, or possessing or having in
custody or control any fowl, bird, or animal which constitutes a nuisance as
defined in division (B)(1) above who shall fail or refuse to take such action
or do such things as will abate such nuisance when requested in writing to do
so by the Chief of Police, shall be punished as stated in §
91.99.
   (C)   (1)   Keeping horses and cattle will be allowed within the city limits
on residential property under the following conditions.
         (a)   Only on residential property of five acre in size and above.
         (b)   Livestock will be kept a minimum of 50 feet from any property
line.
         (c)   No more than five horses or cattle shall be kept or maintained
on the first five acres, and one additional animal may be kept for each
additional two acres. For instance, on a 35-acre tract, up to 20 animals maybe
allowed on this property.
         (d)   No person can slaughter any cattle on his, her, or their
premises.
         (5)   Livestock shall not be kept for commercial purposes.
      (2)   (a)   Any livestock which shall, by sound or odor, interfere with
materially or affect the health, comfort, peace, or quiet of the citizens is
hereby declared to be a nuisance.
         (b)   Any person harboring, keeping, or possessing or having in
custody or control any livestock which constitutes a nuisance as defined in
division (C)(1) above who shall fail or refuse to take such action or do such
things as will abate such nuisance when requested in writing to do so by the
Chief of Police, shall be punished as stated in §
91.99.
(Prior Code, § 3-3) (Ord. 8-18-14, passed 9-15-2014; Ord. 4-22-19, passed 4-22-
2019) Penalty, see §
91.99
**** DOGS ****
§ 91.15 LEASH REQUIRED.
   No owner, keeper, or other person in charge of a dog shall allow or permit
such dog to be at large beyond the boundary lines of such owner’s, keeper’s, or
other person’s land, unless such dog be on a leash having a length not
exceeding six feet.
(Prior Code, § 3-20) Penalty, see §
91.99
Statutory reference:
   Cities authorized to prohibit dogs running at large and control the spread
of rabies, see S.C. Code §§ 47-3-70, and 47-5-210
§ 91.16 RABIES; VACCINATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The owner of each dog four months of age or older kept within
the city shall cause such dog to be vaccinated against rabies, and to be issued
a certificate of current rabies vaccination, signed by a licensed veterinarian,
showing that vaccination has been administered according to approved standards
to the specific dog.
      (2)   Documentary proof that a rabies vaccination has been given in
another governmental jurisdiction within the preceding 12 calendar months may
be used for waiving the requirements of division (A)(1) above.
      (3)   Simultaneously, there shall be issued a rabies vaccination tag to
be attached to a collar or harness which shall be worn by such dog at all
times.
(Prior Code, § 3-21)
   (B)   The City Council may at any time issue a proclamation, to be published
at least one time in a newspaper of general circulation in the city, that there
is a danger of animals at large in the city, which may bite persons or animals,
infecting them with rabies, and ordering the owners of all dogs in the city to
keep such dogs under close confinement for a period of not exceeding 60 days at
any one time, provided that the City Council is hereby given full discretion in
the matter of declaring that such an emergency exists and issuing such
proclamation and in fixing the time limit of such emergency.
(Prior Code, § 3-22)
Statutory reference:
   Cities authorized to enact and enforce measures to control the spread of
rabies, see S.C. Code § 47-5-210
§ 91.17 VICIOUS DOGS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No dog owner shall keep or have unconfined within the city a vicious
dog. The term VICIOUS DOG shall mean a dog which has bitten any person or when
a propensity to attack or bite human beings shall exist and is known.
   (B)   Any dog which shall have bitten any person at any time shall be deemed
prima facie vicious upon proof thereof.
   (C)   Any person found guilty of violating this section shall, in addition
to being punished as provided by law, thereupon forfeit all right, title, and
interest in the subject dog, and the animal officer of the city shall thereupon
destroy the animal.
(Prior Code, § 3-23) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18 NOISY DOGS.
   No person shall keep or have within the city a dog that habitually or
repeatedly barks or howls in such a manner, or to such an extent, that it is a
public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 3-24) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.19 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   Any unleashed dog which has been tagged and vaccinated found beyond
the boundary lines of the lands of its owner, keeper, or other person in charge
shall be seized by such city officer or employee as may be designated by the
Council or Chief of Police. Owners of tagged and vaccinated dogs shall be
notified of the capture, by U.S. mail, postage paid, and addressed to the
address determined through the vaccination tag. The owner shall be given ten
days in which to claim the dog. Tagged and licensed dogs may be claimed by
paying the sum of $3 per day costs to the city. If a tagged and licensed dog be
not claimed within ten days of the mailing of such notice, the same shall be
humanely destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 3-25)
   (B)   (1)   Any unleashed dog not tagged or not vaccinated found beyond the
boundary lines of the land of its owner, keeper, or other person in charge
shall be seized by such city officer or employee as may be designated by the
Council or Chief of Police. Dogs not having a rabies vaccination and its tags
which are seized shall be retained thereafter for four days, excluding the day
of capture, at such kennels as may be provided by the city. Upon the passage of
four days, such dogs, if not claimed, shall be humanely destroyed.
      (2)   Owners of such dogs not vaccinated and tagged may be redeemed by
causing the dog to be vaccinated and paying the sum of $25 to the city.
(Prior Code, § 3-26)
   (C)   Any unleashed dog, whether tagged or vaccinated or not, found to be
beyond the limits of the lands of its owner, keeper, or other person in charge,
three times within any 12-month period, shall be humanely destroyed upon its
being captured for the third time.
(Prior Code, § 3-27) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
91.02 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 3-2)
   (C)   (1)   Any person who violates §
91.03(B) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and fined at the discretion of the
court.
      (2)   Any person who violates §
91.03(C) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 8-18-14, passed 9-15-2014; Ord. 4-22-19, passed 4-22-2019)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
92.01   Burning permit required
   
92.02   Driving over fire hose
   
92.03   False alarm of fire
   
92.04   Fireworks
   
92.05   Burning regulations
Cross-reference:
   Fire limits, see §
150.19
   Opening fire hydrants, see §
51.06
§ 92.01 BURNING PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn within the city any trash,
refuse, paper, grass, brush, leaves, or any other combustible matter on or in
any lawn, garden, or lot, without first notifying and obtaining permission
therefor from the Fire Department, the City Clerk and Treasurer’s office, or
the Police Department.
(Prior Code, § 9-3) (Ord. 5-27-83, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.02 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of a Fire Department
when laid down on any street or private driveway, to be used at any fire or
alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department official in command.
(Prior Code, § 9-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.03 FALSE ALARM OF FIRE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to give a false alarm of fire
in the city.
(Prior Code, § 9-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Tampering with fire alarm box, false alarms, see S.C. Code § 16-17-570
§ 92.04 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale in the
city any fireworks, except on the week prior to the following scheduled
holidays each year:
      (1)   July 4th;
      (2)   New Year’s Eve; and
      (3)   The Atomic City Festival held the second weekend of October each
year.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot or discharge any
firecrackers or fireworks within the city, except on the following dates each
year:
         (a)   July 4th: Until 11:00 p.m.;
         (b)   New Year’s Eve: Until 1:00 a.m.; and
         (c)   The Atomic City Festival held the first weekend of October each
year.
      (2)   Any other time during the year will have to be approved by the City
Council.
(Ord. 101909, passed 10-19-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see S.C. Code §§ 23-35-10 et seq. and 40-56-20
§ 92.05 BURNING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. No person shall kindle or maintain any open burning or
authorize any such fire to be kindled or maintained within the incorporated
areas of the city, except as stated in this section.
   (B)   Location of residential yard debris burning. Open burning of leaves,
tree branches, or yard trimmings on the premises of private residences and
burned on those premises must be located not less than 50 feet from any
structure, not less than 50 feet from the roadway, and not less than 50 feet
from the property line, and adequate provision is made to prevent the fire from
spreading within 50 feet of any structure.
   (C)   Attendant, fire equipment, notice to State Forester, state law. The
burning must be constantly attended by a competent person until such fire is
extinguished. Such person shall have a garden hose connected to a water supply,
or other fire extinguishing equipment, readily available for use. Proper
notification shall be given to the State Forester, or his or her duly
authorized representative or other persons designated by the State Forester.
The notice shall contain all information required by the State Forester, or his
or her representative. The burning must be conducted in accordance with related
state laws and regulations including, but not limited to, DHEC Air Quality
Regulations, S.C. Code §§ 61-62.2 and 61-62.4.
   (D)   Prohibition. Fire shall be prohibited as follows.
      (1)   The State or County Fire Service Coordinator may prohibit open
burning when atmospheric conditions, local circumstances, or other conditions
exist that would make such fires hazardous.
      (2)   The following material shall not be burned in an open fire: Asphalt
and asphaltic materials, paint, plastics, metals, treated wood, paper,
petroleum products, demolition debris, dead animals, construction debris,
household chemicals, hazardous or toxic material, household garbage, tires,
trade waste, coated wire, and cardboard.
      (3)   (a)   Open burning for the purpose of land clearing and right-of-
way maintenance, except as specified by DHEC Air Quality Regulations, S.C. Code
§§ 61-62.2 and 61-62.4.
         (b)   Open burning for the purpose of land clearing and right-of-way
maintenance shall be prohibited during the ozone season (April 1 through
October 30).
      (4)   Open burning shall be prohibited on all roadways and drainage
rights-of-way, or within an area that may cause damage to such areas.
      (5)   Fires shall be extinguished due to multiple complaints from
citizens/neighbors, or if causing a public safety issue or health hazard.
   (E)   Criteria for determining hazards. Reasonable criteria shall be
established by the City Council to assist in determining when outdoor fires may
be hazardous. This criteria may include air quality standards as well as
various fire danger indexes.
   (F)   Exemptions.
      (1)   This section does not apply to vegetative debris burning related to
forestry, wildlife, and agricultural burns, as authorized by the State Forestry
Commission.
      (2)   This section is not meant to restrict open burning in the
connection with the preparation of food for immediate consumption, or campfires
and fires used solely for recreational purposes, ceremonial occasions, or human
warmth that are done in a safe manner.
      (3)   Fires set for the purpose of training public firefighting personnel
when authorized by the appropriate governmental entity and fires set by private
industry as a part of an organized program of drills for the training of
firefighting personnel. These will be exempt only if the drills are solely for
the purposes of firefighting training and the duration of the burning is held
to the minimum required for such purposes. Prior approval by DHEC is required
only for sites which are not established training sites.
   (G)   Restrictions. Smoke production must be ended, and no combustible
material may be added to the fire between official sunset of one day and
official sunrise of the following day, with the exception of fires in the
connection with the preparation of food for immediate consumption, campfires,
and fires used solely for recreational purposes, ceremonial occasions, human
warmth, and where time parameters are already regulated by DHEC Regulations,
S.C. Code § 61-62.2.
   (H)   Civil or criminal liability. The authorization to conduct an open burn
does not relieve the individual responsible from civil or criminal liabilities
resulting from the burning.
   (I)   Reasonable. Officers of the city will document evidence by photograph
or video when possible. Officers have the discretion to charge if the size of
the fire is not reasonable for what the alleged purpose is. The size of the
fire exceeding the alleged intended purpose will be evidence of the violation
of this chapter.
(Ord. 2-16-16, passed 2-16-2016)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §
92.05 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of no
more than $500 plus mandated assessments or imprisonment for 30 days, or both.
(Ord. 2-16-16, passed 2-16-2016)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
93.01   Department of Recreation
   
93.02   Riding, driving vehicle, animal off walks or roads in parks
   
93.03   Riding animals on pedestrian walks in parks
   
93.04   Damaging, defacing, and the like trees, shrubs, other property
   
93.05   Violation of park rules
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DEPARTMENT OF RECREATION.
   (A)   In order to promote the general welfare of the people of the city and
supervised recreation, there was created a Department of Recreation for the
city.
(Prior Code, § 14-1)
   (B)   The City Council shall select one of its members to serve as Director
of the Department of Recreation. The member of Council so selected shall serve
in such capacity during the pleasure of the City Council and without pay from
the city.
(Prior Code, § 14-2)
   (C)   The Director of the Department of Recreation shall be responsible to
the Mayor and City Council for:
      (1)   Operation and supervision of all existing public playgrounds,
athletic fields, swimming pools, tennis courts, baseball and other ball fields,
municipal camps, and all other recreational facilities on or in any public
grounds or buildings, either within or without the city owned by the city; or
on or in any public grounds or buildings now or hereafter acquired which the
city may from time to time authorize, designate, or set apart for recreational
purposes;
      (2)   With the consent of public school authorities, may organize and
conduct play and recreational activities on grounds and in buildings under the
control of such school authorities;
      (3)   Shall have authority to operate and maintain such privately owned
lands or buildings where use for public recreational purposes may be
temporarily granted by the owners and accepted by the city;
      (4)   Permitting the use of such public playgrounds, parks, and baseball
and other ball fields under such Director’s control, but shall not have the
authority for the granting of leases or concessions on, in, or at such
recreational facilities. The Director of the Department of Recreation shall
have the authority to grant leases or concessions to be operated in or at the
recreational facilities of the city, subject to approval by the City Council;
      (5)   The Director of the Department of Recreation shall be responsible
for the care of property, personal and real, under such Director’s control; and
      (6)   The Director of the Department of Recreation may secure competent
assistants who shall serve without pay and, unless provision to the contrary is
made by the City Council, such assistants to be under the direction and control
of the Director.
(Prior Code, § 14-3)
   (D)   The Director of the Department of Recreation shall be required to:
      (1)   Promote public interest and participation in all of the
recreational activities of the Department;
      (2)   Keep advised and informed of the recreational activities in the
greatest demand and those which would yield maximum public participation, and
whenever possible, organize and conduct such recreational activities; and
      (3)   Cooperate with other public and private organizations in the
utilization of available private and public facilities and personnel, which
serve the recreational needs of the community.
(Prior Code, § 14-4)
Cross-reference:
   Departments created, see §
33.01
§ 93.02 RIDING, DRIVING VEHICLE, ANIMAL OFF WALKS OR ROADS IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or drive any vehicle or animal
over any portion of the city parks, either private or public, except on the
roads or thoroughfares set apart and laid out for such purposes, not to include
park maintenance vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 14-5) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 RIDING ANIMALS ON PEDESTRIAN WALKS IN PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or ride any horse, mule, or
other animal on a walk or way laid out only for pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 14-6) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 DAMAGING, DEFACING, AND THE LIKE TREES, SHRUBS, OTHER PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to mutilate, damage, pluck, break, move,
tear up, or carry off any plant, shrub, flower, tree, fence, or other
improvement growing or erected in or around any of the parks of the city, or in
any manner damage any of the walks, ways, or roads.
(Prior Code, § 14-7) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 VIOLATIONS OF PARK RULES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to disobey posted rules in any city park
or facility. The penalty for such violation shall be in accordance with §
35.05.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the posted rules shall govern the use
of Evans Park and parking areas adjacent thereto, the Community Center and
parking areas adjacent thereto, and any other recreational or athletic facility
owned by the city.
(Ord. 09-16-24, passed 9-16-2024) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
93.05 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 09-16-24, passed 9-16-2024)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   LEISURE AND AMUSEMENT
      
113.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Section
   
110.01   Noise permits
   
110.02   Preaching, lecturing, entertainment, and the like in the streets;
permit required
   
110.03   Business license not published
§ 110.01 NOISE PERMITS.
   (A)   Individuals and organizations who desire to hold special events are
required to apply for a noise permit. Permits may be granted for periods of
time from one day to ten consecutive days. (For multi-day events not held on
consecutive days, each day or group of consecutive days shall constitute a
separate event and require a separate permit.) No more than four permits may be
granted for any applicant or location for any calendar year. The total number
of days for all permits granted for any applicant or location shall not exceed
ten days for any calendar year.
   (B)   Noise permit applications will be reviewed by the Events Committee
and/or City Council for approval or denial.
(Ord. 5-15-23, passed 5-15-2023)
§ 110.02 PREACHING, LECTURING, ENTERTAINMENT, AND THE LIKE IN THE STREETS;
PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No preaching, lecturing, speaking, or entertainment of any nature shall be
permitted in the public streets or public places in the city unless a written
permit for same be obtained from the Mayor, nor shall any preaching, lecturing,
speaking exhibition, or entertainment, street vending, or pushcart stand be
permitted except as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 13-34)
Cross-reference:
   Parade permit, see §
70.05
§ 110.03 BUSINESS LICENSE NOT PUBLISHED.
   The current business license ordinance is not published by this code but is
available upon request from the City Clerk.
(Ord. 2025-07, passed 11-17-2025)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definition
   
111.02   Exemption for newspapers
   
111.03   License or registration required
   
111.04   Application for license or registration
   
111.05   Investigation of applicant
   
111.06   Disapproval of application
   
111.07   Approval of application; issuance of license or registration
   
111.08   Duty to exhibit license
   
111.09   Enforcement by police
   
111.10   Revocation of license or registration
   
111.11   Appeals
   
111.12   Loud noises and sound devices
   
111.13   Use of streets
§ 111.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER or SOLICITOR. Any person who goes from house to house, or place to
place in the city selling or taking orders for wares, merchandise, services,
photographs, or magazines or subscriptions to magazines; provided, however,
that such terms shall not apply to persons acting in behalf of any local non-
profit organization.
(Prior Code, § 12-60)
§ 111.02 EXEMPTION FOR NEWSPAPERS.
   This chapter shall not apply to the sale or soliciting of orders for
newspapers.
(Prior Code, § 12-61)
§ 111.03 LICENSE OR REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   All peddlers and solicitors shall be licensed as required by the
business and professional license requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Provided, however, no license will be required of peddlers or
solicitors engaged in interstate commerce, but said peddlers and solicitors
shall be required to register with the City Clerk and Treasurer as herein
required.
(Prior Code, § 12-62)
§ 111.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE OR REGISTRATION.
   The application for a license or for registration as a peddler or solicitor
shall contain the following:
   (A)   The name, home address, and local address, if any, of the applicant;
   (B)   The name and address of the person, if any, that the applicant
represents or for whom or through whom orders are to be solicited or cleared;
   (C)   The nature of the articles or things which are to be sold or for which
orders are to be solicited;
   (D)   Whether the applicant, upon any sale or order, shall demand or receive
payment or any deposit of money in advance of final delivery;
   (E)   The period of time during which the applicant wishes to solicit or
peddle in the city;
   (F)   The names and addresses of any employees of the applicant who will be
engaged in peddling or soliciting in the city;
   (G)   A statement whether the applicant or any of the applicant’s employees
who will be engaged in peddling or soliciting in the city have been convicted
of any crime or violation of an ordinance or law, the nature of the offense,
and the jurisdiction in which such conviction was obtained; and
   (H)   Such other information as the Chief of Police or City Clerk and
Treasurer may require.
(Prior Code, § 12-63)
§ 111.05 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT.
   Upon receipt of an application for a peddler’s or solicitor’s license or for
registration, the City Clerk and Treasurer shall refer such application to the
Chief of Police, who shall make such investigation of the applicant’s and the
applicant’s employees’ business and moral character as the Clerk and Treasurer
deems necessary.
(Prior Code, § 12-64)
§ 111.06 DISAPPROVAL OF APPLICATION.
   If, as a result of such investigation, the Chief of Police finds the
applicant’s or the applicant’s employees’ character or business responsibility
is unsatisfactory, the Chief shall endorse on the application such officer’s
disapproval and the reasons therefor, and return it to the City Clerk and
Treasurer, and no license will be issued or registration permitted.
(Prior Code, § 12-65)
§ 111.07 APPROVAL OF APPLICATION; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE OR REGISTRATION.
   If, as a result of such investigation, the character and business
responsibility of the applicant and applicant’s employees are found to be
satisfactory, the Chief of Police shall endorse on the application such
officer’s approval and return it to the City Clerk and Treasurer, who shall
issue a license upon payment of the required fee, or shall register the
applicant.
(Prior Code, § 12-66)
§ 111.08 DUTY TO EXHIBIT LICENSE.
   Peddlers and solicitors are required to exhibit their licenses at the
request of any person.
(Prior Code, § 12-67)
§ 111.09 ENFORCEMENT BY POLICE.
   It shall be the duty of any police officer of the city to require any person
seen peddling or soliciting, and who is not known by such officer to be duly
licensed or registered, to produce such peddler’s license or proof of
registration and to enforce the provisions of this chapter against any person
found to be violating the same.
(Prior Code, § 12-68)
§ 111.10 REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Authorized. Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter or
the registration of peddlers or solicitors as herein required may be revoked by
the City Clerk and Treasurer after notice and hearing for any of the following
causes:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for a license or registration;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in the course of
carrying on the business of peddler or solicitor;
      (3)   Any violation of this chapter;
      (4)   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
or
      (5)   Conducting the business of peddling or soliciting in an unlawful
manner or in such manner as to constitute a breach of the peace, or to
constitute a menace to the health, safety, or general welfare of the public.
   (B)   Notice of hearing. Notice of the hearing for revocation of a license
hereunder shall be given in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of
complaint and the time and place of hearing. Such notice shall be mailed,
postage prepaid, to the licensee at licensee’s last known address at least five
days prior to the date set for hearing.
(Prior Code, § 12-69)
§ 111.11 APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by the action of the Chief of Police or the City Clerk
and Treasurer in the denial of a license or registration under this chapter, or
by the revocation of a license or registration hereunder, shall have the right
of appeal to the City Council. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the
Council, within 14 days after notice of the action complained of has been
mailed to such person’s last known address, a written statement setting forth
fully the grounds for the appeal. The City Council shall set a time and place
for a hearing on such appeal, and notice of such hearing shall be given to the
appellant in the manner provided by §
111.10(B) for a notice of hearing or revocation.
(Prior Code, § 12-70)
§ 111.12 LOUD NOISES AND SOUND DEVICES.
   No peddler or solicitor, nor any person in such peddler’s or solicitor’s
behalf, shall shout, make any outcry, blow a horn, ring a bell, or use any
sound device, including any loudspeaker or sound amplifying device, upon any of
the streets, alleys, parks, or other public places of the city or upon any
private premises where sound of sufficient volume is emitted or produced to be
capable of being plainly heard upon the streets, alleys, parks, or other public
places, for the purpose of attracting attention to any goods, wares or
merchandise which such peddler or solicitor proposes to sell.
(Prior Code, § 12-71) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Noise created by gongs, and the like, see §
90.016(E)
§ 111.13 USE OF STREETS.
   No peddler shall have any exclusive right to any location in the public
streets, nor shall such peddler be permitted a stationary location, nor shall
such peddler be permitted to operated in any congested area where such
peddler’s operations might impede or inconvenience the public. For the purposes
of this section, the judgment of a police officer, exercised in good faith,
shall be deemed conclusive as to whether the area is congested or the public
impeded or inconvenienced.
(Prior Code, § 12-72) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: LEISURE AND AMUSEMENT
Section
Gambling
   
112.01   Slot machines, punchboards
   
112.02   Keeping, using gaming tables, devices, and the like
   
112.03   Confiscation of equipment
**** GAMBLING ****
§ 112.01 SLOT MACHINES, PUNCHBOARDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or operate, or permit to be kept
or operated, any slot machine, punchboard, tip board, or other device
pertaining to games of chance of whatsoever name or kind, except automatic
weighing, measuring, musical, and vending machines which are so constructed as
to give a certain uniform and fair return in value for each coin deposited
therein, and in which there is no element of chance.
(Prior Code, § 13-14) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Gambling, betting prohibited, see S.C. Code § 16-19-40
§ 112.02 KEEPING, USING GAMING TABLES, DEVICES, AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or use any roulette table or
faro bank, or any other table or contrivance constructed for the purpose of
gambling, or to play at any games where money is bet thereon or won or to
gamble in any way, or to knowingly rent a house, room, or other place on the
premises to any person to carry on such unlawful acts or to allow or to permit
any gambling of any kind on such person’s premises.
(Prior Code, § 13-15)
Statutory reference:
   Keeping gambling devices, see S.C. §§ 16-19-50 and 16-19-70
§ 112.03 CONFISCATION OF EQUIPMENT.
   Upon the conviction of any person in the Municipal Court of a violation of
§§
112.01 or
112.02, it shall be the duty of the police, whenever possible, to seize and
take in possession any such gaming device, or machine, punchboard, tip board,
or other device of whatever name or kind pertaining to games of chance. The
Judge of the Municipal Court shall have power, in like manner as any magistrate
of the state, to declare such slot machine or gaming device confiscated. Upon
such declaration, it shall be the duty of the police officers of the city to
destroy such machines and devices.
(Prior Code, § 13-16)
CHAPTER 113: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
113.01   Temporary alcoholic beverage: permits required
   
113.02   Temporary beer/wine: permits required
§ 113.01 TEMPORARY ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE: PERMITS REQUIRED.
   The State Department of Revenue is authorized to issue temporary permits in
the city for a period not to exceed 24 hours to allow the possession, sale, and
consumption of alcoholic liquors by the drink to bona fide non-profit
organizations and business establishments otherwise authorized to be licensed
for consumption-on-premises sales.
(Ord. passed 8-23-2021; referendum adopted 11-2-2021)
§ 113.02 TEMPORARY BEER/WINE: PERMITS REQUIRED.
   The State Department of Revenue is authorized to issue temporary permits in
the city for a period not to exceed 24 hours to allow the sale of beer and wine
at permitted off-premises locations without regard to the days or hours of
sales.
(Ord. passed 8-23-2021; referendum adopted 11-2-2021)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS AND DECENCY
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
135.   MINORS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Placing handbill, and the like in, upon motor vehicles
   
130.02   Posting bills, other advertising matter in public places
Cross-reference:
   False fire alarms, §
92.03
   Parade permit, see §
70.05
§ 130.01 PLACING HANDBILL, AND THE LIKE IN, UPON MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person shall place or cause to be placed any commercial handbill within
or upon, or under the windshield wiper of, any private motor vehicle parked
upon any of the public streets of the city or in any public parking area. This
shall not apply to the placing of a traffic violation citation, nor shall it
preclude the delivery of any such handbill to an owner, occupant, or person
present and in charge of such vehicle willing to accept and receive the same.
The resultant accumulation of such handbills upon the public streets and in
public parking areas, the blowing thereof within and from such vehicles and
onto, upon, and about the public streets and public parking areas, and the
traffic hazard occasioned by obstruction of the view of the drivers of such
vehicles who have failed to remove such handbills from their windshields, are
hereby declared to make and constitute the initial placing thereof in or upon
such vehicles contrary to the provisions of this section and a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 13-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 POSTING BILLS, OTHER ADVERTISING MATTER IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to post any bills or other advertising
matter upon any permanent or temporary structure or building, pole, or tree
located on any street, park, or other public way or place within the city
without first obtaining a permit therefor from the Mayor or the City Clerk and
Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 13-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Placing banners across streets, see §
152.06
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
Section
Law Enforcement
   
131.01   Resisting, refusing to aid police officer
   
131.02   Hindering, interfering with officers making arrests; aiding prisoners
to escape
   
131.03   Passing articles to city prisoners
Disorderly Conduct
   
131.15   Disorderly conduct
   
131.16   Disturbing religious gatherings
   
131.17   Alcoholic beverages; drinking in public
**** LAW ENFORCEMENT ****
§ 131.01 RESISTING, REFUSING TO AID POLICE OFFICER.
   No person shall oppose or resist arrest by any member of the Police
Department of the city in the discharge of duty, and no person shall neglect or
refuse to assist an officer in making any arrest when so requested or commanded
by such officer.
(Prior Code, § 13-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02 HINDERING, INTERFERING WITH OFFICERS MAKING ARRESTS; AIDING PRISONERS
TO ESCAPE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder, prevent, or obstruct any
officer or other person charged with the execution of any warrant or other
process or engaged in arresting any person for whose apprehension such warrant
or other process may have been issued, or to hinder, prevent, or obstruct any
officer or other person lawfully engaged in making an arrest of any person
under circumstances not requiring the issuance of a warrant of such arrest, or
to rescue, or to attempt to rescue, such person from the custody of the officer
or person lawfully assisting such officer as aforesaid, or to aid, abet, or
assist any person so arrested, as aforesaid, directly or indirectly, to escape
from the custody of the officer or person assisting such officer, as aforesaid,
or to harbor or conceal any person for whose arrest a warrant or other process
shall have been issued, or whose arrest is lawfully sought without any such
warrant, so as to prevent such person’s discovery and arrest, after notice or
knowledge of the fact of the issuing of such warrant or other process, or that
such arrest is lawfully sought without any such warrant.
(Prior Code, § 13-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Opposing law enforcement officer, see S.C. Code § 16-9-320
§ 131.03 PASSING ARTICLES TO CITY PRISONERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to give or pass, or attempt to give or
pass, any article of any description to any person in the charge of any officer
of the city, or to any prisoner, confined in the city jail, or city work detail
without first obtaining permission so to do from the officer in charge of said
prisoner.
(Prior Code, § 13-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
**** DISORDERLY CONDUCT ****
§ 131.15 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any breach of peace, conduct
such person’s self in a disorderly manner, or to be publicly drunk or under the
influence of intoxicating beverages.
(Prior Code, § 13-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Disorderly conduct, see S.C. Code § 16-17-530
§ 131.16 DISTURBING RELIGIOUS GATHERINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, willfully or maliciously, to disturb or
interrupt any meeting, society, assembly, or congregation convened for the
purpose of religious worship, or to enter such meeting while in a state of
intoxication, or to use or sell spirituous liquors, or use blasphemous,
profane, or indecent language at or near the place of meeting.
(Prior Code, § 13-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Disturbing religious assemblies, see S.C. Code § 16-17-520
§ 131.17 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; DRINKING IN PUBLIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Publicly engage in the drinking of intoxicating liquors, beer, ale,
porter, wine, or any other similar malt or fermented beverage;
   (B)   Publicly engage in the drinking of intoxicating liquors, beer, ale,
porter, wine, or any other similar malt or fermented beverage in the presence
of a passenger in either a privately or publicly owned vehicle; or
   (C)   Engage in the drinking of intoxicating liquors, beer, ale, porter,
wine, or any other similar malt or fermented beverage upon any premises upon
which an athletic contest is being conducted.
(Prior Code, § 13-32) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Drinking in public conveyance, see S.C. Code § 16-17-530
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
132.01   Destruction of property generally
   
132.02   Destroying personal property of another
   
132.03   Defacing, and the like, monuments, tombstones
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to negligently, willfully, wantonly, or
maliciously cut, mutilate, deface, vandalize, or otherwise damage or destroy by
any means any real or personal property of the city or of any entity or
department of the city.
(Prior Code, § 13-17) Penalty, see §
132.99
Cross-reference:
   Damaging, and the like, property in parks, see §
93.04
   Damaging streets, see §
152.04
Statutory reference:
   Malicious injury to personal property, see S.C. Code § 16-11-510
   Malicious injury to real property, see S.C. Code § 16-11-520
§ 132.02 DESTROYING PERSONAL PROPERTY OF ANOTHER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully, unlawfully, and
maliciously cut, shoot, or wound, or otherwise damage, injure, or destroy any
vehicle, horse, mule, cattle, hog, sheep, goat, dog, cat, or any other kind,
class, article, or description of personal property, the goods and chattel of
another, or to willfully, unlawfully, or maliciously cut, mutilate, deface, or
otherwise injure any tree, house, outhouse, fence, or fixture of another, or
commit any other trespass of real property in the possession of another.
(Prior Code, § 13-18) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03 DEFACING, AND THE LIKE, MONUMENTS, TOMBSTONES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully cut, mutilate, deface, or
otherwise damage any public or private monument or tombstone situated in the
city, whether within or without any recognized cemetery or on any battlefield,
or to cut, damage, deface, or mutilate any fence or enclosure erected around
any such monument, or commit any other willful trespass upon the grounds around
such monument or tombstone.
(Prior Code, § 13-19) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person convicted of such described in §
132.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined, imprisoned, and
required to make restitution to the proper city authority in charge for the
cost of repairing such damage, or replacing the destroyed item, at the
discretion of the judge before whom the case shall be tried.
(Prior Code, § 13-17)
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS AND DECENCY
Section
Obscenities, Indecent Exposure
   
133.01   Obscenity
   
133.02   Prostitution
   
133.03   Sending obscene material to women
   
133.04   Indecent exposure
Drug Paraphernalia
   
133.15   Drug paraphernalia defined
   
133.16   Possession of drug paraphernalia
   
133.17   Counterfeit drugs
 
   
133.99   Penalty
**** OBSCENITIES, INDECENT EXPOSURE ****
§ 133.01 OBSCENITY.
   (A)   OBSCENITY is the intentional:
      (1)   Production, sale, exhibition, gift, or advertisement with the
intent to primarily appeal to the prurient interest of the average person, of
any lewd, lascivious, filthy, or sexually indecent written composition, printed
composition, book, magazine, pamphlet, newspaper, story, paper, writing,
phonograph record, picture, drawing, motion picture film, figure, image, wire,
or tape recording or any written, printed, or recorded matter of sexually
indecent character which may, or may not, require mechanical or other means to
be transmitted into auditory, visual, or sensory representation of sexually
indecent character;
      (2)   Possession with the intent to sell, exhibit, give, or advertise any
of the pornographic material of the character as described in division (A)(1)
above, with the intent to primarily appeal to the prurient interest of the
average person;
      (3)   Performance by any person in the presence of another person with
the intent of arousing sexual desire, of any lewd, lascivious, sexually
indecent dancing, indecent posing, or indecent body movement; or
      (4)   Solicitation or attempt to entice any unmarried person under the
age of 17 years to commit any act prohibited by this section.
   (B)   In prosecutions for obscenity, lack of knowledge of age or marital
status shall not constitute a defense.
(Prior Code, § 13-23) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Obscene matter, see S.C. Code §§ 16-15-260 et seq.
§ 133.02 PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to:
      (1)   Engage in prostitution;
      (2)   Aid or abet prostitution knowingly;
      (3)   Procure or solicit for the purpose of prostitution;
      (4)   Expose indecently the private person for the purpose of
prostitution or other indecency;
      (5)   Reside in, enter, or remain in any place, structure, building,
vehicle, trailer, or conveyance for the purpose of lewdness, assignation, or
prostitution;
      (6)   Keep or set up a house of ill fame, brothel, or bawdy house;
      (7)   Receive any person for purposes of lewdness, assignation, or
prostitution into any vehicle, conveyance, trailer, place, structure, or
building;
      (8)   Direct, take, or transport, offer or agree to take or transport, or
aid or assist in transporting any person to any vehicle, conveyance, trailer,
place, structure, or building, or to any other person, with knowledge or having
reasonable cause to believe that the purpose of such directing, taking, or
transporting is prostitution, lewdness, or assignation;
      (9)   Lease or rent, or contract to lease or rent, any vehicle,
conveyance, trailer, place, structure, or building, or part thereof, believing
or having reasonable cause to believe that it is intended to be used for any of
the purposes herein prohibited; or
      (10)   Aid, abet, or participate knowingly in the doing of the acts
herein prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 13-24)
   (B)   It shall further be unlawful to:
      (1)   Procure an inmate for a house of prostitution;
      (2)   Cause, induce, persuade, or encourage by promise, threat, violence,
or by any scheme or device a person to become a prostitute or to remain an
inmate of a house of prostitution;
      (3)   Induce, persuade, or encourage a person to come into or leave the
city for the purpose of prostitution or to become an inmate in a house of
prostitution;
      (4)   Receive or give, or agree to receive or give, any money or thing of
value for procuring or attempting to procure any person to become a prostitute
or an inmate in a house of prostitution;
      (5)   Accept or receive knowingly any money or other thing of value
without consideration from a prostitute; or
      (6)   Aid, abet or participate knowingly in the doing of any of the acts
herein prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 13-25)
Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Lewdness, assignation, prostitution, see S.C. Code § 16-15-90
§ 133.03 SENDING OBSCENE MATERIAL TO WOMEN.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to write, print, or by any
other manner or means to communicate, send, or deliver to any woman or woman
child any obscene, profane, indecent, vulgar, suggestive, or immoral message.
(Prior Code, § 13-26) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.04 INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully expose indecently such
person’s body or any part thereof to public view.
(Prior Code, § 13-22) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Indecent exposure, see S.C. Code § 16-15-130
**** DRUG PARAPHERNALIA ****
§ 133.15 DRUG PARAPHERNALIA DEFINED.
   (A)   The term DRUG PARAPHERNALIA means all equipment, products, and
materials of any kind which are used, intended for use, or designed for use in
planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing,
packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting,
inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body a controlled substance
in violation of this subchapter.
   (B)   It includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, or growing or harvesting of any species of plant
which is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can be
derived;
      (2)   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, or preparing controlled
substances;
      (3)   Isomerization devices used, intended for use, or designed or use in
increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled substance;
      (4)   Testing equipment used, intended for use, or designed for use in
identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness, or purity of
controlled substances;
      (5)   Scales or balances used, intended for use, or designed for use in
weighing or measuring controlled substances;
      (6)   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine, hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose, and lactose, used, intended for use, or designed for use in
cutting controlled substances;
      (7)   Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use, or designed for
use in removing twigs and seeds from, or in, otherwise cleaning or refining
marijuana;
      (8)   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons, and other container used,
intended for use, or use designed for use in compounding controlled substances;
      (9)   Capsules, balloons, envelopes, and other containers used, intended
for use, or designed for use in compounding controlled substances;
      (10)   Containers and other objects used, intended for use, or designed
for use in storing or concealing controlled substances;
      (11)   Hypodermic syringes, needles, or other objects used, intended for
use, or designed for use in parentally injecting controlled substances into the
human body;
      (12)   (a)   Objects used, intended for use, or designed for use to
ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce marijuana, cocaine, crack cocaine, ice,
crank, hashish, or hashish oil into the human body, including, but not limited
to:
            1.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic
pipes with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured
metal bowls;
            2.   Water pipes;
            3.   Carburetor tubes and devices;
            4.   Smoking and carburetor masks;
            5.   ROACH CLIPS, meaning objects used to hold burning material,
such as a marijuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be
held in the hand;
            6.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
            7.   Chamber pipes;
            8.   Carburetor pipes;
            9.   Electric pipes;
            10.   Air-driven pipes;
            11.   Chillers;
            12.   Bongs; and
            13.   Ice pipes or chillers.
         (b)   In determining whether or not an object is drug paraphernalia, a
court or other authority should consider, in addition to all other logically
relevant factors, the following:
            1.   Statement by its owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
            2.   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner or of anyone in control
of the object, under any state of federal law, relating to any controlled
substance;
            3.   Proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of this subchapter;
            4.   Proximity of the object to controlled substances;
            5.   Existence of any residue of controlled substances on the
object;
            6.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner or
of anyone in control of the object to deliver it to persons whom he or she
knows, or should reasonably know, intend to use the object to facilitate a
violation of this subchapter. The innocence of an owner, or of anyone in
control of the object as to a direct violation of this subchapter, shall not
prevent a finding that the object is intended for use or designed for use as
drug paraphernalia;
            7.   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object
concerning its use;
            8.   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use;
            9.   National and local advertising concerning its use;
            10.   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
            11.   Whether or not the owner, or anyone in control of the object,
is a legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
            12.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of
the object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise;
            13.   Existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community; and
            14.   Expert testimony concerning its use.
(Ord. 03-02-18, passed 3-2-2018)
§ 133.16 POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   It is unlawful for any person to use, or to possess with intent to use, drug
paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture,
compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack,
store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into
the human body a controlled substance in violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 03-02-18, passed 3-2-2018) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.17 COUNTERFEIT DRUGS.
   Any person who shall distribute or sell any substance under the pretense
that said substance is an illegal drug, illegal narcotics, or controlled
substance when said substance is, in fact, not an illegal drug, illegal
narcotics, or controlled substance shall be guilty of the sale of counterfeit
drugs for the purpose of this section.
(Ord. 03-02-18, passed 3-2-2018) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates §
133.16 is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Any person who violates §
133.17, upon conviction, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 03-02-18, passed 3-2-2018)
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
Assault, Cruelty
   
134.01   Simple assault
   
134.02   Cruelty to children
Weapons and Firearms
   
134.15   Weapons; pointing firearms at person
   
134.16   Discharging generally
   
134.17   Discharging firearm at or into occupied dwellings
   
134.18   Concealment about person
**** ASSAULT, CRUELTY ****
§ 134.01 SIMPLE ASSAULT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit simple assault upon any
person.
(Prior Code, § 13-27) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.02 CRUELTY TO CHILDREN.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to torture, torment, cruelly ill-treat,
deprive of necessary sustenance or shelter, or inflict unnecessary suffering or
pain upon any child or cause same to be done whether such person be parent or
guardian or have charge or custody of such child.
(Prior Code, § 13-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
**** WEAPONS AND FIREARMS ****
§ 134.15 WEAPONS; POINTING FIREARMS AT PERSON.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to present or point at any other
person any loaded or unloaded firearm.
   (B)   Nothing contained herein shall be construed to abridge the right of
self defense or to apply to theatricals or like performances.
(Prior Code, § 13-28) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Assault with concealed weapon, see S.C. Code § 16-3-61
   Offenses involving weapons, see S.C. Code §§ 16-23-10 et seq.
§ 134.16 DISCHARGING GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge a firearm, air rifle, or
other weapon; provided, however, nothing herein contained shall be construed to
apply to persons discharging firearms in protection of their life or property,
or to peace officers in the actual discharge of their duties as such.
(Prior Code, § 13-29) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Discharging firearms, see S.C. Code § 16-23-440
§ 134.17 DISCHARGING FIREARM AT OR INTO OCCUPIED DWELLINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be discharged
any firearm at or into any house occupied as a dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 13-30) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.18 CONCEALMENT ABOUT PERSON.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry a dirk, slingshot, metal
knuckles, razor, or other deadly weapon used for the infliction of injury to
persons or damage to property concealed on or about said person and, upon
conviction thereof, shall forfeit to the city the weapon so concealed and be
punished as provided in §
10.99. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply to persons carrying
concealed weapons about their own premises or to peace officers in the actual
discharge of their duties as such.
(Prior Code, § 13-31) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 135: MINORS
Section
   
135.01   Minors in pool halls
§ 135.01 MINORS IN POOL HALLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under 18 years of age to loiter in any
billiard or pool room unless accompanied by such person’s parent or guardian,
or with the written consent of such person’s parent or guardian. In the event
the keeper of a billiard or pool room is of opinion that any person desiring
admission thereto is under the age of 18 years, such keeper shall require such
person to certify such person’s age in writing. It shall be unlawful for any
minor to make a false certificate as to such minor’s guardian.
(Prior Code, § 13-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS, CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND ZONING PLANS
      
152.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
153.   FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS, CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Building Official
   
150.02   County official
Building Codes
   
150.15   Building Code adopted
   
150.16   Electrical Code adopted
   
150.17   Gas Code adopted
   
150.18   Plumbing Code adopted
   
150.19   Fire limits established
Fire Prevention
   
150.30   Fire Prevention Code adopted
   
150.31   Enforcement
Building Regulations
   
150.45   Unsafe buildings, dwellings, apartment houses, rooming houses
Cross-reference:
   Approval required to move building, see App. A, § 3(j)
   Building Inspector to enforce zoning ordinance, see App. A, § 12
   Construction noise restricted, see §
90.016
   Obstructing street with building materials, see § 15.02(B)
   Plans required, see App. A, § 12
   Restoring unsafe structures, see App. A, § 3(d)
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 150.01 BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The City Council shall, by resolution, designate a person or official to
serve as Building Official. The initial Building Official shall be the City
Fire Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 4-7) (Ord. 11-10-86, passed - -)
§ 150.02 COUNTY OFFICIAL.
   The procedures of §§
150.01 and
150.45 shall be in addition to those available to the city through the County
Planning and Development Board.
(Prior Code, § 4-8) (Ord. 11-10-86, passed - -)
**** BUILDING CODES ****
§ 150.15 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations, for the construction, alteration, removal, demolition, equipment,
use, and occupancy, location, and maintenance of buildings and structures,
including permits, that certain code known as the Standard Building Code, being
particularly the 1982 edition thereof, with revisions through 1984, and the
whole thereof, save and except such portions as are hereinafter deleted,
modified, or amended, or which at least one copy is filed in the office of the
City Clerk and Treasurer, and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated as
fully as if set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 4-1)
§ 150.16 ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations for the installation of electric wiring and apparatus, that certain
code known as the National Electrical Code, as recommended by the National Fire
Protection Association, being particularly the 1984 edition thereof, and the
whole thereof, save and except such portions as are hereinafter deleted,
modified, or amended, of which at least one copy is filed in the office of the
City Clerk and Treasurer, and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated as
fully as if set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 4-2)
§ 150.17 GAS CODE ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations for the installation of gas pipes and gas appliances, that certain
code known as the Standard Gas Code, being particularly the 1982 edition
thereof, with revisions through 1984, and the whole thereof, save and except
such portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified, or amended, of which at
least one copy is filed in the office of the City Clerk and Treasurer, and the
same is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length
herein.
(Prior Code, § 4-3)
§ 150.18 PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing rules and
regulations to govern plumbing installation, construction, and maintenance,
that certain code known as the 1976 Standard Plumbing Code, being particularly
the 1982 edition thereof, with revisions through 1984, and the whole thereof,
save and except such portions as may hereinafter be deleted, modified, or
amended, of which at least one copy is filed in the office of the City Clerk
and Treasurer, and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if
set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 4-4)
Cross-reference:
   Sewage disposal facilities, see §
90.001
§ 150.19 FIRE LIMITS ESTABLISHED.
   The fire limits of the city shall be the area within a five-mile road
distance of the city fire station.
(Prior Code, § 4-5)
**** FIRE PREVENTION ****
§ 150.30 FIRE PREVENTION CODE ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted for the purpose of prescribing regulations governing
conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or exposure, that certain
code known as the Standard Fire Prevention Code, promulgated by the Southern
Building Code Congress International, Inc., amended by the American Insurance
Association, being particularly the 1982 edition, with revisions through 1984,
and the whole thereof, save and except such portions as may be hereafter
deleted, modified, or amended, and the provisions thereof being hereby adopted
and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Prior Code, § 9-1)
Statutory reference:
   Municipalities authorized to adopt safety and technical codes by reference,
see S.C. Code §§ 5-7-280 and 6-9-10
§ 150.31 ENFORCEMENT.
   The code adopted in §
150.30 shall be enforced by the Chief of the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 9-2)
**** BUILDING REGULATIONS ****
§ 150.45 UNSAFE BUILDINGS, DWELLINGS, APARTMENT HOUSES, ROOMING HOUSES.
   (A)   All dwellings, apartment houses, rooming houses, or buildings or
structures used as such which are unsafe, unsanitary, unfit for human
habitation, or not provided with adequate egress; or which constitute a fire
hazard, or are otherwise dangerous to human life; or which, in relation to
existing use, constitute a hazard to safety or health by reason of inadequate
maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence, or abandonment, are severally, in
contemplation of this section, unsafe buildings. All such unsafe buildings are
hereby declared illegal and a nuisance, and shall be abated by repair and
rehabilitation or by demolition in accordance with the procedure set out in
this section.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever the Building Official determines that there are
reasonable grounds to believe that a building is a dangerous building, as
defined above, he or she shall give notice to the owner of such building. Such
notice shall:
         (a)   Be put in writing;
         (b)   Include a statement of the reasons why it is being issued; and
         (c)   Allow 120 days for the performance of any act it requires.
      (2)   Said notice shall further state that, if such repairs,
reconstruction, alterations, removal, or demolition are not voluntarily
completed within the stated time, as set forth in the notice, the Building
Official shall institute legal proceedings charging the owner with a violation
of this section.
   (C)   The notice provided for above shall be served as follows:
      (1)   By delivery to the owner personally or by leaving the notice at the
usual place of abode of the owner with a person of suitable age and discretion;
      (2)   By depositing the notice in the United States Post Office addressed
to the owner at his or her last known address, with postage prepaid thereon; or
      (3)   By posting and keeping posted for 24 hours a copy of the notice in
a conspicuous place on the premises referred to in the notice.
   (D)   If the notice provided for in this section is not complied with and
the repairs, reconstruction, alterations, removal, or demolition are not
voluntarily completed within the stated time, as set forth in such notice, the
Building Official shall issue and cause to be served upon the owner of, and
parties interested in, such unsafe building a complaint stating the charges in
that respect and containing a notice that a hearing will be held before the
Building Official, or his or her designated agent, at a place therein fixed,
not less than ten days nor more than 30 days after the serving of such
complaint; that the owner and parties in interest shall be given the right to
file an answer to the complaint and to appear in person, or otherwise, and give
testimony at the place and time fixed in the complaint; and that the rules of
evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity shall not be controlling in such
hearing.
   (E)   If, after the notice and hearing as provided for in division (D)
above, the Fire Inspector determines that the building under consideration is
an unsafe building, is in violation of division (A) above, and constitutes a
nuisance, he or she shall state in writing his or her findings of fact in
support of such determination and shall issue and cause to be served upon the
owner of the property an order:
      (1)   If the repair, alteration, or improvement of the building can be
made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the building, requiring
the owner, within the time specified in the order, to repair, alter, or improve
such dwelling to render it safe for human habitation, or to vacate and close
the dwelling as a human habitation; or
      (2)   If the repair, alteration, or improvement of the dwelling cannot be
made at a reasonable cost in relation to the value of the building, requiring
the owner, within the time specified in the order, to remove or demolish such
dwelling.
   (F)   If the owner fails to comply with an order of the Building Official to
repair, alter, or improve, or to vacate and close, the dwelling, as provided in
division (E) above, the Building Official may cause such building to be
repaired, altered, or improved, or to be vacated and closed, and may cause to
be posted on the main entrance in any building so closed a placard with the
following words: “This building is unfit for human habitation; the use or
occupation of this building for human habitation is prohibited and unlawful.”
If the owner fails to comply with an order of the Building Official to remove
or demolish the dwelling, the Building Official may cause such building to be
removed or demolished.
   (G)   The amount of the cost of repairs, alterations, or improvements, or
vacating and closing, or removal and demolition, by the Building Official under
the provisions of division (F) above shall be a lien against the real property
upon which such cost was incurred. If the building is removed or demolished by
the Building Official, he or she shall sell the materials of such building, if
feasible, and shall credit the proceeds of such sale against the cost of the
removal and demolition, and any balance remaining shall be deposited by the
Building Official with the Clerk of the Court of Common Pleas for the county.
If the sale of materials does not cover the cost of such repairs, alterations,
improvements, or vacating and closing, or removal and demolition, the balance
of the cost thereof shall be an assessment against the property owner, and the
expense shall be added to the annual tax levied, and shall be collected by the
city in the same manner as the annual property tax.
   (H)   Complaints or orders issued by the Building Official pursuant to this
section shall be served upon persons either personally or by registered mail,
but if the whereabouts of such person is unknown and the same cannot be
ascertained by the Building Official, in the exercise of reasonable diligence,
and the Building Official makes an affidavit to that effect, then the serving
of such complaints or orders upon such persons may be made by publishing the
same once each week for two consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city and published in the county. A copy of such complaint
or order shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises affected by the
complaint or order. A copy of such complaint or order shall also be filed with
the Clerk of Court of the Common Pleas for the county and such filing of the
complaint or order shall have the same force and effect as other lis pendens
and notices provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 4-6) (Ord. 11-10-86, passed - -)
CHAPTER 151: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND ZONING PLANS
Section
   
151.01   Approval of plan
   
151.02   Approval of zoning ordinance
§ 151.01 APPROVAL OF PLAN.
   The approval of the city’s Comprehensive Plan is hereby adopted by reference
as if set out herein in full.
(Ord. 10-19-20, passed 10-19-2020)
§ 151.02 APPROVAL OF ZONING ORDINANCE.
   The approval of the city’s zoning ordinance is hereby adopted by reference
as if set out herein in full.
(Ord. 01-18-21, passed 1-18-2021)
CHAPTER 152: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
152.01   Acceptance, and the like, of streets owned by others
   
152.02   Obstructing streets, sidewalks generally
   
152.03   Swinging gates, other; animals causing hazard
   
152.04   Digging up, damaging streets; permit required
   
152.05   Burning of trash, and the like, on streets
   
152.06   Placing, extending signs, banners across public way, place
Cross-reference:
   Depositing refuse on streets, see §
90.030
Statutory reference:
   Powers, rights, and privileges of cities to keep streets and sidewalks in
good repair, see S.C. Code § 5-27-120
§ 152.01 ACCEPTANCE, AND THE LIKE, OF STREETS OWNED BY OTHERS.
   (A)   The city shall not accept, lay out, open, improve, grade, pave, or
otherwise maintain any street or road within or without the corporate limits of
the city, the same being the responsibility of the county where any such street
or road has been dedicated to and accepted by said body politic, or of the
state where any such street or road has been dedicated to and accepted by the
state, or in other cases of owners of any such street or road.
   (B)   The City Council and Board of Commissioners of Public Works shall not
accept, establish, install, or maintain any city utilities in or along any
street or road other than streets or roads dedicated to, accepted by, and
presently owned and maintained by the county or the state, and any acceptance,
establishment, installation, or maintenance of any city utilities in or along
any such street or road shall be only after proper application therefor, and
authorization for the same by the City Council and the Board of Commissioners
of Public Works of the city.
(Prior Code, § 16-1) (Ord. 4-11-83, passed - -)
§ 152.02 OBSTRUCTING STREETS, SIDEWALKS GENERALLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct or blockade any
street, highway, public road, or traveled place, or any part thereof by placing
or allowing to remain thereon any vehicle not in actual and immediate use or
any other article or obstructions whatsoever; provided, that nothing herein
contained shall deprive any person who may be building, of the use of such
number of feet, not exceeding 20 feet, from the pavement and the sidewalk as
may be allowed by the Chief of Police, for temporary convenience of placing
timber, brick, or such other building material as the Chief of Police may deem
proper.
(Prior Code, § 16-2)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any merchant or other person to
obstruct or blockade any pavement, walk, or sidewalk within the city by placing
thereon any articles of merchandise or things of any kind whatsoever.
      (2)   This section shall not prevent any person from engaging in any
business upon private property adjacent to, but not forming a part of, such
pavement, walk, or sidewalk; nor shall it prohibit organized non-profit groups
from engaging, upon specified days, an annual sale of Christmas Seals, Buddy
Poppies, or other like articles, for charitable or eleemosynary purposes and
not for profit, and locate upon the public sidewalk as may be designated by the
Chief of Police, upon application to such Chief, at such point as will cause
the least obstruction to the flow of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 16-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Intersection visibility and corner setback, see App. A § 3(g)
§ 152.03 SWINGING GATES, OTHER; ANIMALS CAUSING HAZARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to blockade any street, highway, public
road, or traveled place, or any part thereof by allowing any gate to remain
open or to swing upon the same, or by placing or allowing to remain thereon any
obstruction whatsoever; or to allow any vehicle, horse, or other animal to
remain upon the same in such manner as to create a hazard.
(Prior Code, § 16-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.04 DIGGING UP, DAMAGING STREETS; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage, plow up, or plant anything in
any street; to dig, or to cause any digging to be done in any streets, roads,
walk, path, or pavement within the city or to remove or cause to be removed
therefrom any sand, clay, dirt or other earth without the written permission of
the applicable authority; or to in any manner damage the same; provided, that
the provisions of this section shall not apply to such work as may be done
under the lawful direction of the applicable authority.
(Prior Code, § 16-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.05 BURNING OF TRASH, AND THE LIKE, ON STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to burn any trash, wastepaper, or any
other refuse matter on any street in the city.
(Prior Code, § 16-6) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Burning regulations, see §
92.05
§ 152.06 PLACING, EXTENDING SIGNS, BANNERS ACROSS PUBLIC WAY, PLACE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to extend any banner or canvas sign
across any public street, park, or other public way or place within the city
without first having obtained a permit from the Mayor or the City Clerk and
Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 16-7) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 153: FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Statutory authorization
   
153.002   Findings of fact
   
153.003   State of purpose and objectives
   
153.004   Lands to which chapter applies
   
153.005   Establishment of development permit
   
153.006   Compliance
   
153.007   Interpretation
   
153.008   Partial invalidity and severability   
   
153.009   Warning and disclaimer of liability   
   
153.010   Definitions
Administration
   
153.025   Designation of local Floodplain Administrator
   
153.026   Adoption of letter of map revisions
   
153.027   Development permit and certification requirements
   
153.028   Duties and responsibilities of the local Floodplain Administrator
   
153.029   Administrative procedures
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
153.040   General standards
   
153.041   Specific standards
   
153.042   Standards for streams without base flood elevations floodways
   
153.043   Standards for streams with base flood elevations but without
floodways
   
153.044   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (AO Zones)
   
153.045   Coastal high hazard areas (V Zones)
Variance Procedures
   
153.060   Establishment of Appeal Board
   
153.061   Right to appeal
   
153.062   Historic structures
   
153.063   Functionally dependent uses
   
153.064   Accessory, agricultural structures
   
153.065   Considerations
   
153.066   Findings
   
153.067   Floodways
   
153.068   Conditions
Legal Status Provisions
   
153.080   Effect on rights and liabilities under the existing ordinance
   
153.081   Effect upon outstanding building permits
 
   
153.999   Penalty
**** GENERAL PROVISIONS ****
§ 153.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has, in S.C. Code Title 5 and Title 6, and
amendments thereto, delegated the responsibility to local governmental units to
adopt regulations designed to promote the public health, safety, and general
welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the City Council does ordain as follows.
(Ord. 2025-08, passed 11-17-2025)
§ 153.002 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The special flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life, property, health, and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures of flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   Furthermore, these flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities,
and by the occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or
hazardous to other lands which are inadequately elevated, floodproofed, or
otherwise unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 2025-08, passed 11-17-2025)
§ 153.003 STATE OF PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to protect human life and health,
minimize property damage, and encourage appropriate construction practices to
minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions by requiring that
uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which serve such uses, be
protected against flood damage at the time of initial construction. Uses of the
floodplain which are dangerous to health, safety, and property due to water or
erosion hazards, or which increase flood heights, velocities, or erosion are
restricted or prohibited. These provisions attempt to control the alteration of
natural floodplains, stream channels, and natural protective barriers which are
involved in the accommodation of floodwaters, and control filling, grading,
dredging, and other development which may increase flood damage or erosion.
Additionally, the chapter prevents or regulates the construction of flood
barriers which will unnaturally divert floodwaters, or which may increase flood
hazards to other lands.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are to protect human life and health,
to help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of floodprone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas, and to ensure that potential home buyers are notified that property is
in a flood area. The provisions of the chapter is intended to minimize damage
to public facilities and utilities such as water and gas mains, electricity,
telephone, and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in the floodplain, and
prolonged business interruptions. Also, an important floodplain management
objective of this chapter is to minimize expenditure of public money for costly
flood control projects and rescue and relief efforts associated with flooding.
   (C)   Floodplains are an important asset to the community. They perform
vital natural functions such as temporary storage of floodwaters, moderation of
peak flood flows, maintenance of water quality, groundwater recharge,
prevention of erosion, habitat for diverse natural wildlife populations,
recreational opportunities, and aesthetic quality. These functions are best
served if floodplains are kept in their natural state. Wherever possible, the
natural characteristics of floodplains and their associated wetlands and water
bodies should be preserved and enhanced. Decisions to alter floodplains,
especially floodways and stream channels, should be the result of careful
planning processes that evaluate resource conditions and human needs.
(Ord. 2025-08, passed 11-17-2025)
§ 153.004 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within
the jurisdiction of the city as identified by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) in its flood insurance study, dated August 16, 2018, with
accompanying maps and other supporting data that are hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
   (B)   Upon annexation, any special flood hazard areas identified by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in its flood insurance study for the
unincorporated areas of the county, with accompanying map and other data, are
adopted by reference and declared part of this chapter.
(Ord. 2025-08, passed 11-17-2025)
§ 153.005 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A development permit shall be required in conformance with the provisions of
this chapter prior to the commencement of any development activities.
(Ord. 2025-08, passed 11-17-2025)
§ 153.006 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, extended, converted, or
structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2025-08, passed 11-17-2025) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.007 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions
shall be considered as minimum requirements, liberally construed in favor of
the governing body, and deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers
granted under state law.
   (B)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions.
   (C)   However, where the provisions of this chapter and another conflict or
overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 2025-08, passed 11-17-2025)
§ 153.008 PARTIAL INVALIDITY AND SEVERABILITY.
   If any part of this chapter is declared invalid, the remainder of the
chapter shall not be affected and shall remain in force.
(Ord. 2025-08, passed 11-17-2025)
§ 153.009 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
consideration. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the city or by any officer or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter, or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 2025-08, passed 11-17-2025)
§ 153.010 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). Structures that are located on
the same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should
constitute a minimal investment (no more than 10% of the value of the primary
structure), may not be used for human habitation, and be designed to have
minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY STRUCTURES are detached
garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns, and hay sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING BUILDING). An extension or increase in the floor
area or height of a building or structure. ADDITIONS to existing buildings
shall comply with the requirements for new construction regardless as to
whether the addition is a substantial improvement or not. Where a firewall or
load bearing wall is provided between the addition and the existing building,
the ADDITION(S) shall be considered a separate building and must comply with
the standards for new construction.
   AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURE. A structure used solely for agricultural purposes in
which the use is exclusively in connection with the production, harvesting,
storage, drying, or raising of agricultural commodities, including the raising
of livestock. AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURES are not exempt from the provisions of
this chapter.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the local Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or VO Zone on a community’s flood
insurance rate map (FIRM) with base flood depths of one to three feet where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given
year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. Any enclosed area of a building that is below grade on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREA. An area of special flood hazard extending from
offshore to the inland limit of the primary frontal dune along an open coast,
and any other area subject to velocity wave action from storms or seismic
sources.
   CRITICAL DEVELOPMENT. Development that is critical to the community’s public
health and safety, is essential to the orderly functioning of a community,
stores or produces highly volatile, toxic, or water-reactive materials, or
houses occupants that may be insufficiently mobile to avoid loss of life or
injury. Examples of CRITICAL DEVELOPMENT include jails, hospitals, schools,
fire stations, nursing homes, wastewater treatment facilities, water plants,
and gas/oil/propane storage facilities.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. A non-basement building built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of solid foundation perimeter walls,
pilings, columns, piers, or shear walls parallel to the flow of water.
   EXECUTIVE ORDER 11988 (FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT). Issued by President Carter in
1977, this order requires that no federally assisted activities be conducted in
or have the potential to affect identified special flood hazard areas, unless
there is no practicable alternative.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the start of construction commenced before June 30, 1976.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A
manufactured home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities
for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed
(including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
completed before June 30, 1976.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete slabs).
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal waters, or the
unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, where the boundaries of the areas of
special flood hazard have been defined as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community on which the
Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special
flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. An examination, evaluation, and determination of
flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations, or
an examination, evaluation, and determination of mudslide (for example,
mudflow), and/or flood-related erosion hazards.
   FLOOD-RESISTANT MATERIAL. Any building material capable of withstanding
direct and prolonged contact (minimum 72 hours) with floodwaters without
sustaining damage that requires more than low-cost cosmetic repair. Any
material that is water-soluble or is not resistant to alkali or acid in water,
including normal adhesives for above-grade use, is not FLOOD-RESISTANT.
Pressure-treated lumber or naturally decay-resistant lumbers are acceptable
flooring materials. Sheet-type flooring coverings that restrict evaporation
from below and materials that are impervious but dimensionally unstable are not
acceptable. Materials that absorb or retain water excessively after submergence
are not FLOOD RESISTANT. Please refer to Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-
Resistant Materials Requirements, available from the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. Class 4 and 5 materials, referenced therein, are acceptable
flood-resistant materials.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than one foot.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends to compensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of urbanization of
the watershed.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to construction, next to the proposed walls of the structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the U.S. Department of the Interior (DOI)) or
preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places; and/or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of Interior in states without approved
programs. Some structures or districts listed on the state or local inventories
may not be HISTORIC as cited above but have been included on the inventories
because it was believed that the structures or districts have the potential for
meeting the HISTORIC STRUCTURE criteria of the DOI. In order for these
structures to meet NFIP historic structure criteria, it must be demonstrated
and evidenced that the State Department of Archives and History has
individually determined that the structure or district meets DOI historic
structure criteria.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). Applies to all new and renewed flood
insurance policies effective on and after June 1, 1997. The NFIP shall enable
the purchase of insurance to cover the cost of compliance with land use and
control measures established under § 1361 . It provides coverage for the
payment of a claim to help pay for the cost to comply with state or community
floodplain management laws or ordinances after a flood event in which a
building has been declared substantially or repetitively damaged.
   LIMITED STORAGE. An area used for storage and intended to be limited to
incidental items that can withstand exposure to the elements and have low flood
damage potential. Such an area must be of flood resistant or breakaway
material, void of utilities except for essential lighting, and cannot be
temperature controlled. If the area is located below the base flood elevation
in an A, AE, and A1-A30 Zone, it must meet the requirements of §
153.043(D). If the area is located below the base flood elevation in a V, VE,
and V1-V30 Zone, it must meet the requirements of §
153.045.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE (LAG). An elevation of the lowest ground surface that
touches any structurally attached deck support, exterior walls of a building,
or proposed building walls.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a
basement area, is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For the purpose of this chapter, the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988, or
other datum, to which the base flood elevations shown on a community’s flood
insurance rate maps (FIRM) are shown.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929. As corrected in 1929,
elevation reference points set by the National Geodetic Survey based on mean
sea level.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM (NAVD) OF 1988. Vertical control, as corrected
in 1988, used as the reference datum on flood insurance rate maps.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structure for which the start of construction commenced on
or after June 30, 1976. The term also includes any subsequent improvements to
such structure.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete slabs) is completed on or after June 30,
1976.
   PRIMARY FRONTAL DUNE. A continuous or nearly continuous mound or ridge of
sand with relatively steep seaward and landward slopes immediately landward and
subject to erosion and overtopping from high tides and waves during coastal
storms. The inland limit of the primary frontal dune occurs at the point where
there is a distinct change from a relatively steep slope to a relatively mild
slope.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. A building covered by a contract for flood insurance that
has incurred flood-related damages on two occasions during a ten-year period
ending on the date of the event for which a second claim is made, in which the
cost of repairing the flood damage, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of
the market value of the building at the time of each such flood event.
   SECTION 1316 OF THE NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE ACT OF 1968. The Act provides
that no new flood insurance shall be provided for any property found by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency to have been declared by a state or local
authority to be in violation of state or local ordinances.
   STABLE NATURAL VEGETATION. The first place on the oceanfront where plants,
such as sea oats hold sand in place.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. Law 97-348),
includes SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT, and means the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition, or improvement was within 180 days of the permit
date. The ACTUAL START means the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure (including a manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of
slabs or footings, installation of piles, construction of columns, or any work
beyond the stage of excavation or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. PERMANENT CONSTRUCTION does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for footings, piers, or
foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the
building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a manufactured home, including a
gas or liquid storage tank that is principally aboveground.
   SUBDIVISION. A parcel of land divided into two or more lots.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
Such repairs may be undertaken successively, and their costs counted
cumulatively. Please refer to the definition of SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the
market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred repetitive loss
or substantial damage regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project of improvement to a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   (2)   Permits shall be cumulative for a period of five years. If the
improvement project is conducted in phases, the total of all costs associated
with each phase, beginning with the issuance of the first permit, shall be
utilized to determine whether SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT will occur.
   SUBSTANTIALLY IMPROVED EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or SUBDIVISION. Where
the repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, or improvement of the streets,
utilities, and pads equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the streets,
utilities, and pads before the repair, reconstruction, or improvement
commenced.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from a term or terms of this chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with these regulations.
(Ord. 2025-08, passed 11-17-2025)
**** ADMINISTRATION ****
§ 153.025 DESIGNATION OF LOCAL FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Administrator or his or her designee is hereby appointed to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2025-08, passed 11-17-2025)
§ 153.026 ADOPTION OF LETTER OF MAP REVISIONS.
   All LOMRs that are issued in the areas identified in §
153.004 are hereby adopted.
(Ord. 2025-08, passed 11-17-2025)
§ 153.027 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT AND CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Development permit. Application for a development permit shall be made
to the local Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to
any development activities. The development permit may include, but not be
limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing: the nature, location,
dimensions, and elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed
structures; and the location of fill materials, storage areas, and drainage
facilities. Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   A plot plan that shows the 100-year floodplain contour or a
statement that the entire lot is within the floodplain must be provided by the
development permit applicant when the lot is within or appears to be within the
floodplain as mapped by the Federal Emergency Management Agency or the
floodplain identified pursuant to either §
153.028(J), the use of best available data, or the standards for streams
without estimated base flood elevations, and floodways of §
153.042. The plot plan must be prepared by or under the direct supervision of a
registered land surveyor or professional engineer and certified by it. The plot
plan must show the floodway, if any, as identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency or the floodway identified pursuant to either §
153.028(J), the use of best available data, or the standards for streams
without estimated base flood elevations and floodways of §
153.042.
      (2)   Where base flood elevation data is provided, as set forth in §§
153.004 or
153.028(J), the application for a development permit within the flood hazard
area shall show:
         (a)   The elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the lowest
floor of all new and substantially improved structures; and
         (b)   If the structure will be floodproofed in accordance with the
non-residential construction requirements of §
153.041(B), and the elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which the
structure will be floodproofed.
      (3)   Where base flood elevation data is not provided as set forth in §§
153.004 or
153.028(J), then the provisions in the standards for streams without estimated
base flood elevations and floodways of §
153.042 must be met.
      (4)   Where any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of
proposed development, the application for a development permit shall include a
description of the extent of watercourse alteration or relocation, an
engineering study to demonstrate that the flood-carrying capacity of the
altered or relocated watercourse is maintained, and a map showing the location
of the proposed watercourse alteration or relocation.
   (B)   Certifications.
      (1)   Floodproofing certification. When a structure is floodproofed, the
applicant shall provide certification from a registered, professional engineer
or architect that the non-residential, floodproofed structure meets the
floodproofing criteria in the non-residential construction requirements of §§
153.041(B) and 153.044(B).
      (2)   Certification during construction. A lowest floor elevation
certification is required after the lowest floor is completed. As soon as
possible after completion of the lowest floor and before any further vertical
construction commences, or floodproofing by whatever construction means,
whichever is applicable, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to
the local Floodplain Administrator a certification of the elevation of the
lowest floor or floodproofed elevation, whichever is applicable, as built, in
relation to mean sea level. Said certification shall be prepared by or under
the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or professional engineer
and certified by it. Any work done prior to submission of the certification
shall be at the permit holder’s risk. The local Floodplain Administrator shall
review the floor elevation survey data submitted. The permit holder immediately
and prior to further progressive work being permitted to proceed shall correct
deficiencies detected by such review. Failure to submit the survey or failure
to make said corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work
order for the project.
      (3)   V Zone certification. When a structure is located in Zones V, VE,
or V1-30, certification shall be provided from a registered professional
engineer or architect, separate from submitted plans, that new construction and
substantial improvement meets the criteria for the coastal high hazard areas
outlined in §
153.045(E).
      (4)   As-built certification. Upon completion of the development, a
registered professional engineer or land surveyor, in accordance with state
law, shall certify according to the requirements of divisions (B)(1), (B)(2),
and (B)(3) above that the development is built in accordance with the submitted
plans and previous pre-development certifications.
(Ord. 2025-08, passed 11-17-2025)
§ 153.028 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE LOCAL FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The duties and the responsibilities of the local Floodplain Administrator
shall include, but not be limited to:
   (A)   Permit review. Review all development permits to assure that the
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
   (B)   Requirement of federal and/or state permits. Review proposed
development to assure that all necessary permits have been received from those
governmental agencies from which approval is required by federal or state law,
including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972,
33 U.S.C § 1334; and
   (C)   Watercourse alterations.
      (1)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Department of Natural
Resources, Land, Water, and Conservation Division, State Coordinator for the
National Flood Insurance Program, prior to any alteration or relocation of a
watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency;
      (2)   In addition to the notifications required for watercourse
alterations per division (C)(1) above, written reports of maintenance records
must be maintained to show that maintenance has been provided within the
altered or relocated portion of said watercourse so that the floodcarrying
capacity is maintained. This maintenance must consist of a comprehensive
program of periodic inspections and routine channel clearing and dredging, or
other related functions. The assurance shall consist of a description of
maintenance activities, frequency of performance, and the local official
responsible for maintenance performance. Records shall be kept on file for FEMA
inspection;
      (3)   If the proposed project will modify the configuration of the
watercourse and/or floodway or change the base flood elevations for which a
detailed flood insurance study has been developed, §
153.041(G) shall apply; and
      (4)   Within 60 days of completion of an alteration of a watercourse,
referenced in the certification requirements of §
153.027(B)(4), the applicant shall submit the as-built certification, by a
registered professional engineer, to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (D)   Floodway encroachments. Prevent encroachments within floodways unless
the certification and flood hazard reduction provisions of §
153.041(E) are met.
   (E)   Adjoining floodplains. Cooperate with neighboring communities with
respect to the management of adjoining floodplains and/or flood-related erosion
areas in order to prevent aggravation of existing hazards.
   (F)   Notifying adjacent communities. Notify adjacent communities prior to
permitting substantial commercial developments and large subdivisions to be
undertaken in areas of special flood hazard and/or flood-related erosion
hazards.
   (G)   Certification requirements.
      (1)   Obtain and review actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level)
of the lowest floor of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with administrative procedures outlined in §
153.027(B)(2) or the coastal high hazard area requirements outlined in §
153.045.
      (2)   Obtain the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to
which the new or substantially improved structures have been floodproofed, in
accordance with the floodproofing certification outlined in §
153.027(B)(1).
      (3)   When floodproofing is utilized for a particular structure, obtain
certifications from a registered professional engineer or architect in
accordance with the non-residential construction requirements outlined in §
153.041(B).
      (4)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the design, specifications, and plans for construction are in compliance with
the provisions contained in the coastal high hazard area requirements outlined
in §
153.045.
   (H)   Map interpretation. Where interpretation is needed as to the exact
location of boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where
there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), make the necessary interpretation. The person contesting the
location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
interpretation.
   (I)   Prevailing authority. Where a map boundary showing an area of special
flood hazard and field elevations disagree, the base flood elevations for flood
protection elevations (as found on an elevation profile, floodway data table,
and the like) shall prevail. The correct information should be submitted to
FEMA as per the map maintenance activity requirements outlined in §
153.041(G)(2).
   (J)   Use of best available data. When base flood elevation data and
floodway data has not been provided in accordance with §
153.004, obtain, review, and reasonably utilize best available base flood
elevation data and floodway data available from a federal, state, or other
source, including data developed pursuant to §
153.042(A) in order to administer the provisions of this chapter. Data from
preliminary, draft, and final flood insurance studies constitutes best
available data from a federal, state, or other source, which must be developed
using hydraulic models meeting the minimum requirement of NFIP approved model.
If an appeal is pending on the study in accordance with 44 C.F.R. Chapter 1, §§
67.5 and 67.6, the data does not have to be used.
   (K)   Special flood hazard area/topographic boundaries conflict. When the
exact location of boundaries of the areas special flood hazards conflict with
the current, natural topography information at the site, the site information
takes precedence when the lowest adjacent grade is at or above the BFE. The
property owner may apply and be approved for a letter of map amendment (LOMA)
by FEMA. The local Floodplain Administrator, in the permit file, will maintain
a copy of the letter of map amendment issued from FEMA.
   (L)   On-site inspections. Make on-site inspections of projects in
accordance with the administrative procedures outlined in §
153.029(A).
   (M)   Administrative notices. Serve notices of violations, issue stop-work
orders, revoke permits, and take corrective actions in accordance with the
administrative procedures in §
153.029.
   (N)   Records maintenance. Maintain all records pertaining to the
administration of this chapter and make these records available for public
inspection.
   (O)   Annexations and detachments. Notify the State Department of Natural
Resources Land, Water, and Conservation Division, State Coordinator for the
National Flood Insurance Program, within six months of any annexations or
detachments that include special flood hazard areas.
   (P)   Federally funded development. All federally-funded development must
comply with all applicable executive orders. Evidence of compliance with the
executive order must be submitted as part of the permit review process.
   (Q)   Substantial damage determination. Perform an assessment of damage from
any origin to the structure to determine the percent damage, which is based on
the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   (R)   Substantial improvement determinations.
      (1)   Perform an assessment of permit applications for improvements or
repairs (to include percent damage) to be made to a building or structure that
equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the start of
construction. Cost of work counted for determining if and when substantial
improvement to a structure occurs shall be cumulative for a period of five
years. If the improvement project is conducted in phases, the total of all
costs associated with each phase, beginning with the issuance of the first
permit, shall be utilized to determine whether substantial improvement will
occur.
      (2)   The market values shall be determined by one of the following
methods:
         (a)   The current assessed building value, as determined by the
county’s assessor’s office, or the value of an appraisal performed by a
licensed appraiser at the expense of the owner within the past six months;
         (b)   One or more certified appraisals from a registered professional
licensed appraiser in accordance with the laws of the state. The appraisal
shall indicate actual replacement value of the building or structure in its
pre-improvement condition, less the cost of site improvements and depreciation
for functionality and obsolescence;
         (c)   Real estate purchase contract within six months prior to the
date of the application for a permit; and
         (d)   Computed actual cash value. This value is based on the average
cost of construction per square foot, less the depreciation value.
(Ord. 2025-08, passed 11-17-2025)
§ 153.029 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Inspections of work in progress. As the work pursuant to a permit
progresses, the local Floodplain Administrator shall make as many inspections
of the work as may be necessary to ensure that the work is being done according
to the provisions of the local ordinance and the terms of the permit. In
exercising this power, the Floodplain Administrator has a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction at any reasonable hour for the purposes of inspection
or other enforcement action.
   (B)   Stop-work orders. Whenever a building or part thereof is being
constructed, reconstructed, altered, or repaired in violation of this chapter,
the Floodplain Administrator may order the work to be immediately stopped. The
stop-work order shall be in writing and directed to the person doing the work.
The stop-work order shall state the specific work to be stopped, the specific
reasons for the stoppage, and the conditions under which the work may be
resumed. Violation of a stop-work order constitutes a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Revocation of permits. The local Floodplain Administrator may revoke
and require the return of the development permit by notifying the permit holder
in writing, stating the reason for the revocation. Permits shall be revoked for
any substantial departure from the approved application, plans, or
specifications; for refusal or failure to comply with the requirements of state
or local laws; or for false statements or misrepresentations made in securing
the permit. Any permit mistakenly issued in violation of an applicable state or
local law may also be revoked.
   (D)   Periodic inspections. The local Floodplain Administrator, and each
member of his or her Inspections Department, shall have a right, upon
presentation of proper credentials, to enter on any premises within the
territorial jurisdiction of the Department at any reasonable hour for the
purposes of inspection or other enforcement action. Inspections may be made
during construction and post construction to ensure continued compliance with
the NFIP.
   (E)   Violations to be corrected. When the local Floodplain Administrator
finds violations of applicable state and local laws, it shall be his or her
duty to notify the owner or occupant of the building of the violation. The
owner or occupant shall immediately remedy each of the violations of law on the
property he or she owns.
   (F)   Actions in event of failure to take corrective action. If the owner of
a building or property shall fail to take prompt corrective action, the
Floodplain Administrator shall give him or her written notice, by certified or
registered mail to his or her last known address or by personal service, that:
      (1)   The building or property is in violation of this chapter;
      (2)   A hearing will be held before the local Floodplain Administrator at
a designated place and time, not later than ten days after the date of the
notice, at which time the owner shall be entitled to be heard in person or by
counsel and to present arguments and evidence pertaining to the matter; and
      (3)   Following the hearing, the local Floodplain Administrator may issue
such order to alter, vacate, or demolish the building, or to remove fill as it
appears appropriate.
   (G)   Order to take corrective action. If, upon a hearing held pursuant to
the notice prescribed in division (F) above, the Floodplain Administrator finds
that the building or development is in violation of this chapter, he or she
shall make an order in writing to the owner, requiring the owner to remedy the
violation within such period, not more than 180 days, the Floodplain
Administrator may prescribe; provided, that where the Floodplain Administrator
finds that there is imminent danger to life or other property, he or she may
order that corrective action be taken in such lesser period as may be feasible.
   (H)   Appeal. Any owner who has received an order to take corrective action
may appeal from the order to the local elected governing body by giving notice
of the appeal in writing to the Floodplain Administrator and the Clerk within
ten days following issuance of the final order. In the absence of an appeal,
the order of the Floodplain Administrator shall be final. The local governing
body shall hear an appeal within a reasonable time and may affirm, modify and
affirm, or revoke the order.
   (I)   Failure to comply with order. If the owner of a building or property
fails to comply with an order to take corrective action from which no appeal
has been taken or fails to comply with an order of the governing body following
an appeal, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished in
the discretion of the court.
   (J)   Denial of flood insurance under the NFIP. If a structure is declared
in violation of this chapter, and after all other penalties are exhausted to
achieve compliance with this chapter, then the local Floodplain Administrator
shall notify the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to initiate a §
1316 of the National Flood insurance Act of 1968 action against the structure
upon the finding that the violator refuses to bring the violation into
compliance with the chapter. Once a violation has been remedied the local
Floodplain Administrator shall notify FEMA of the remedy and ask that the §
1316 be rescinded.
   (L)   Documents. The following documents are incorporated by reference and
may be used by the local Floodplain Administrator to provide further guidance
and interpretation of this chapter, as found on FEMA’s website at www.fema.gov:
      (1)   FEMA 55 Coastal Construction Manual;
      (2)   All FEMA technical bulletins;
      (3)   All FEMA floodplain management bulletins;
      (4)   FEMA 348 Protecting Building Utilities from Flood Damage; and
      (5)   FEMA 499 Home Builder’s Guide to Coastal Construction Technical
Fact Sheets.
(Ord. 2025-08, passed 11-17-2025)
**** PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION ****
§ 153.040 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   Development may not occur in the special flood hazard area (SFHA) where
alternative locations exist due to the inherent hazards and risks involved.
Before a permit is issued, the applicant shall demonstrate that new structures
cannot be located out of the SFHA and that encroachments onto the SFHA are
minimized. In all areas of special flood hazard, the following provisions are
required:
   (A)   Reasonably safe from flooding. Review all permit applications to
determine whether proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from
flooding.
   (B)   Anchoring. All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure.
   (C)   Flood resistant materials and equipment. All new construction and
substantial improvements shall be constructed with flood resistant materials
and utility equipment resistant to flood damage in accordance with Technical
Bulletin 2, Flood Damage-Resistant Materials Requirements, available from the
Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (D)   Minimize flood damage. All new construction and substantial
improvements shall be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood
damages.
   (E)   Critical development. All new construction and substantial
improvements that meet the definition of critical development shall be elevated
to the 500-year flood elevation or be elevated to the highest known historical
flood elevation (where records are available), whichever is greater. If no data
exists, establishing the 500-year flood elevation or the highest known
historical flood elevation, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and
hydraulic engineering analysis that generates the 500-year flood elevation
data.
   (F)   Utilities. Electrical, ventilation, plumbing, heating and air
conditioning equipment (including ductwork), and other service facilities shall
be designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components during conditions of the base flood plus one foot.
   (G)   Water supply systems. All new and replacement water supply systems
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the
system.
   (H)   Sanitary sewage systems. New and replacement sanitary sewage systems
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the
systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters. On-site waste
disposal systems shall be located and constructed to avoid impairment to them
or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Gas or liquid storage tanks. All gas or liquid storage tanks, either
located aboveground or buried, shall be anchored to prevent floatation and
lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads.
   (J)   Alteration, repair, reconstruction, or improvements. Any alteration,
repair, reconstruction, or improvement to a structure that is in compliance
with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the requirements of new
construction as contained in this chapter. This includes post-FIRM development
and structures.
   (K)   Non-conforming buildings or uses. Non-conforming buildings or uses,
including historic structures, may not be enlarged, replaced, or rebuilt unless
such enlargement or reconstruction is accomplished in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2025-08, passed 11-17-2025)
§ 153.041 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazard (Zones A, AE, AH, AO, and A1-30),
unless otherwise specified where base flood elevation data has been provided,
as set forth in §§
153.004 or
153.028(J), the following provisions are required:
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall have the
lowest floor elevated no lower than one foot above the base flood elevation. No
basements are permitted. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to
elevate a structure, flood openings sufficient to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces shall be provided in accordance with the elevated
buildings requirements in division (D) below.
   (B)   Non-residential construction.
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial,
industrial, or non-residential structure (including manufactured homes) shall
have the lowest floor elevated no lower than one foot above the level of the
base flood elevation. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to
elevate a structure, flood openings sufficient to automatically equalize
hydrostatic flood forces, shall be provided in accordance with the elevated
buildings requirements in division (D) below. No basements are permitted.
Structures located in A Zones may be floodproofed in lieu of elevation,
provided that all areas of the structure below the required elevation are
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water, using
structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and the effect of buoyancy.
      (2)   A registered, professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the standards of this section are satisfied. Such certifications shall be
provided to the official as set forth in the floodproofing certification
requirements in §
153.027(B)(1). A variance may be considered for wet-floodproofing agricultural
structures in accordance with the criteria outlined in §
153.064(C). Agricultural structures not meeting the criteria of §
153.064 must meet the non-residential construction standards and all other
applicable provisions of this chapter. Structures that are floodproofed are
required to have an approved maintenance plan with an annual exercise. The
local Floodplain Administrator must approve the maintenance plan and receive
notification of the annual exercise.
   (C)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved on
sites outside a manufactured home park or subdivision, in a new manufactured
home park or subdivision, in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision, or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as the result of a
flood, must be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of
the manufactured home is elevated no lower than one foot above the base flood
elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system
to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
      (2)   Manufactured homes that are to be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision that are not
subject to the provisions for manufactured homes in division (C)(1) above must
be elevated so that either:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated no lower
than one foot above the base flood elevation; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement
or in accordance with § 40-29 of the State Manufactured Housing Board
Regulations and S.C. § 79-42, whichever is more restrictive.
      (3)   An evacuation plan must be developed for evacuation of all
residents of all new, substantially improved, or substantially damaged
manufactured home parks or subdivisions located within areas of special flood
hazard. This plan shall be filed with and approved by the local Floodplain
Administrator and the local emergency manager.
   (D)   Elevated buildings. New construction and substantial improvements of
elevated buildings that include fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor
that are usable solely for the parking of vehicles, building access, or limited
storage in an area other than a basement, and which are subject to flooding
shall be designed to preclude finished space and be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters.
      (1)   Designs for complying with this requirement must either be
certified by a professional engineer or architect, or meet or exceed all of the
following minimum criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings on different walls having a
total net area of not less than one square inch for every square foot of
enclosed area.
         (b)   The bottom of each opening must be no more than one foot above
the higher of the interior or exterior grade immediately under the opening.
         (c)   Only the portions of openings that are below the base flood
elevation (BFE) can be counted towards the required net open area. If the
lowest adjacent grade (LAG) is between the BFE and the freeboard, openings are
still required between the BFE and the freeboard until a LOMA has been
approved.
         (d)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices, provided they permit the automatic flow of floodwaters in
both directions.
         (e)   Fill placed around foundation walls must be graded so that the
grade inside the enclosed area is equal to or higher than the adjacent grade
outside the building on at least one side of the building.
      (2)   Hydrodynamic pressure must be considered in the design of any
foundation system where velocity waters or the potential for debris flow
exists. If flood velocities are excessive (greater than five feet per second),
foundation systems other than solid foundations walls should be considered so
that obstructions to damaging flood flows are minimized.
      (3)   (a)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking of vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator).
         (b)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall be unfinished
or finished with flood resistant material and not partitioned into separate
rooms, must be void of utilities except for minimum code requirements, and
cannot be temperature controlled. For outlets that require greater than 250
volts, a ground fault circuit interrupters are required.
         (c)   All construction materials below the required lowest floor
elevation specified in the specific standards outlined in divisions (A), (B),
and (C) above, and this division (D), should be of flood resistant materials.
   (E)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
153.004 are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters that carry debris and
potential projectiles, and has erosion potential. The following provisions
shall apply within such areas:
      (1)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, additions, and other developments shall be permitted unless:
         (a)   It has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any impact of the flood levels during
the occurrence of the base flood. Such certification and technical data shall
be presented to the local Floodplain Administrator; or
         (b)   A conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) has been approved
by FEMA. A letter of map revision must be obtained within six months of
completion of the proposed development.
      (2)   If division (E)(1) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this subchapter.
      (3)   A replacement manufactured home may be allowed, provided the
anchoring and the elevation standards of division (C) above and the
encroachment standards of division (E)(1) above may apply, except when the
replacement manufactured home is the same size as the existing.
      (4)   Permissible uses within floodways may include general farming,
pasture, outdoor plant nurseries, horticulture, forestry, wildlife sanctuary,
game farm, and other similar agricultural, wildlife, and related uses. Also,
lawns, gardens, play areas, picnic grounds, and hiking and horseback riding
trails are acceptable uses, provided that they do not employ structures or
fill. Substantial development of a permissible use may require a no-impact
certification. The uses listed in this division (E) are permissible only if and
to the extent that they do not cause any increase in base flood elevations or
changes to the floodway configuration.
   (F)   Recreational vehicles.
      (1)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is:
         (a)   On wheels or jacking system;
         (b)   Attached to the site only by quick-disconnect type utilities and
security devices; and
         (c)   Has no permanently attached additions.
      (2)   Recreational vehicles placed on sites shall either be:
         (a)   On site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         (c)   Meet the development permit and certification requirements of §
153.044, general standards outlined in §
153.040, and manufactured homes standards in divisions (C) and (D) above.
   (G)   Map maintenance activities. The National Flood Insurance Program
(NFIP) requires flood data to be reviewed and approved by FEMA. This ensures
that flood maps, studies, and other data identified in §
153.004 accurately represent flooding conditions so appropriate floodplain
management criteria are based on current data. The following map maintenance
activities are identified and shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard:
      (1)   Requirement to submit new technical data.
         (a)   For all development proposals that impact floodway/floodplain
delineations or base flood elevations, the community shall ensure that a letter
of map revision reflecting the impacts be submitted to FEMA as soon as
practicable, but no later than six months from the end of construction of the
project. These development proposals include, but not limited to:
            1.   Floodway encroachments that increase or decrease base flood
elevations or alter floodway boundaries;
            2.   Fill sites to be used for the placement of proposed structures
where the applicant desires to remove the site from the special flood hazard
area;
            3.   Alteration of watercourses that result in a relocation or
elimination of the special flood hazard area, including stream restoration and
the placement of culverts;
            4.   Subdivision or large-scale development proposals requiring the
establishment of base flood elevations in accordance with §
153.042(A); and
            5.   Any development that will alter the boundaries of the area of
special flood hazard.
         (b)   The applicant is responsible to have technical data, required in
accordance with this division (G), prepared in a format required for an
conditional letter of map revision or letter of map revision, and submitted to
FEMA. Submittal and processing fees for these map revisions shall also be the
responsibility of the applicant.
         (c)   The local Floodplain Administrator shall require a conditional
letter of map revision prior to the issuance of a floodplain development permit
for:
            1.   Proposed floodway encroachments that increase the base flood
elevation; or
            2.   Proposed development which increases the base flood elevation
by more than one foot in areas where FEMA has provided base flood elevations
but no floodway.
         (d)   The local Floodplain Administrator may require a conditional
letter of map revision for any development that he, she, or they want the
impacts to be evaluated prior to issuance of a permit.
         (e)   Floodplain development permits issued by the local Floodplain
Administrator shall be conditional upon the applicant obtaining a letter of map
revision from FEMA for any development proposal subject to division (G) above.
            1.   If issued prior to obtaining the letter of map revision, then
the permit must be based on the map in effect at the time of the permit
issuance.
            2.   If issued after the letter of map revision is issued, then the
permit should be based on the letter of map revision.
      (2)   Right to submit new technical data. The Floodplain Administrator
may request changes to any of the information shown on an effective map that
does not impact floodplain or floodway delineations or base flood elevations,
such as labeling or planimetric details. Such a submission shall include
appropriate supporting documentation made in writing by the local jurisdiction
and may be submitted at any time.
   (H)   Accessory structures. Detached accessory structures used only for
parking of vehicles and storage are permitted at grade if:
      (1)   In special flood hazard areas other than coastal high hazard areas
(Zones A, AE, AH, AO, and A1-30), they are not larger than one-story and 600
square feet in area. Walls must have openings in compliance with division (D)
(1) above.
      (2)   In coastal high hazard areas (Zones V, VE, V1-30, and VO), they are
not larger than 100 square feet and in compliance with §
153.045.
      (3)   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
      (4)   Flood damage resistant materials used below the base elevation in
accordance with Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage Resistant Materials
Requirement.
      (5)   Mechanical, electrical, and utility equipment comply with the
requirements of §
153.040(F).
      (6)   Accessory structures shall be designed to have low flood damage
potential.
      (7)   Accessory structures shall be constructed and placed on the
building site so as to offer the minimum resistance to the flow of floodwaters.
   (I)   Swimming pool utility equipment rooms. If the building cannot be built
at or above the BFE because of functionality of the equipment, then a structure
to house the utilities for the pool may be built below the BFE with the
following provisions:
      (1)   Meet the requirements for accessory structures in division (H)
above; and
      (2)   The utilities must be anchored to prevent flotation and shall be
designed to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components
during conditions of the base flood.
   (J)   Elevators.
      (1)   Install a float switch system or another system that provides the
same level of safety necessary for all elevators where there is a potential for
the elevator cab to descend below the BFE during a flood per FEMA’s Technical
Bulletin 4 Elevator Installation for Buildings Located in Special Flood Hazard
Areas.
      (2)   All equipment that may have to be installed below the BFE, such as
counterweight roller guides, compensation cable and pulleys, and oil buffers
for traction elevators, and the jack assembly for a hydraulic elevator must be
constructed using flood-resistant materials where possible per FEMA’s Technical
Bulletin 4 Elevator Installation for Buildings Located in Special Flood Hazard
Areas.
   (K)   Fill. An applicant shall demonstrate that fill is the only alternative
to raising the building to meet the residential and non-residential
construction requirements of divisions (A) or (B) above, and that the amount of
fill used will not affect the flood storage capacity or adversely affect
adjacent properties. The following provisions shall apply to all fill placed in
the special flood hazard area.
      (1)   Fill may not be placed in the floodway unless it is in accordance
with the requirements in division (E)(1) above.
      (2)   Fill may not be placed in tidal or non-tidal wetlands without the
required state and federal permits.
      (3)   Fill must consist of soil and rock materials only. A registered
professional geotechnical engineer may use dredged material as fill only upon
certification of suitability. Landfills, rubble fills, dumps, and sanitary
fills are not permitted in the floodplain.
      (4)   Fill used to support structures must comply with ASTM Standard D-
698, and its suitability to support structures certified by a registered,
professional engineer.
      (5)   Fill slopes shall be no greater than two horizontals to one
vertical. Flatter slopes may be required where velocities may result in
erosion.
      (6)   The use of fill shall not increase flooding or cause drainage
problems on neighboring properties.
      (7)   Fill may not be used for structural support in the coastal high
hazard areas.
      (8)   Shall meet the requirements of FEMA Technical Bulletin 10, Ensuring
That Structures Built On Fill In or Near Special Flood Hazard Areas Are
Reasonably Safe From Flooding.
   (L)   Standards for subdivision proposals and other development.
      (1)   All subdivision proposals and other proposed new development shall
be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage and are subject to all
applicable standards in these regulations.
      (2)   All subdivision proposals and other proposed new development shall
have public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical , and
water systems, located and constructed to minimize flood damage.
      (3)   All subdivision proposals and other proposed new development shall
have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.
      (4)   The applicant shall meet the requirement to submit technical data
to FEMA in division (G) above when a hydrologic and hydraulic analysis is
completed that generates base flood elevations.
(Ord. 2025-08, passed 11-17-2025)
§ 153.042 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITHOUT BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS FLOODWAYS.
   Located within the areas of special flood hazard (Zones A and V),
established in §
153.004, are small streams where no base flood data has been provided and where
no floodways have been identified. The following provisions apply within such
areas:
   (A)   In all areas of special flood hazard where base flood elevation data
are not available, the applicant shall provide a hydrologic and hydraulic
engineering analysis that generates base flood elevations for all subdivision
proposals and other proposed developments containing at least 50 lots or five
acres, whichever is less.
   (B)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and new development, shall be permitted within 100 feet of the
stream bank unless certification with supporting technical data by a registered
professional engineer is provided demonstrating that such encroachments shall
not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base
flood discharge.
   (C)   If division (A) above is satisfied and base flood elevation data is
available from other sources, all new construction and substantial improvements
within such areas shall comply with all applicable provisions of this
subchapter and shall be elevated or floodproofed in accordance with elevations
established in accordance with §
153.028(J).
   (D)   Data from preliminary and draft flood insurance studies constitutes
best available data. Refer to FEMA Floodplain Management Technical Bulletin 1-
98, Use of Flood Insurance Study (FIS) Data as Available Data. If an appeal is
pending on the study in accordance with 44 C.F.R. Chapter 1, §§ 67.5 and 67.6,
the data does not have to be used.
   (E)   When base flood elevation (BFE) data is not available from a federal,
state, or other source one of the following methods must be used to determine a
BFE in approximate Zone A areas:
      (1)   Contour interpolation.
         (a)   Superimpose approximate Zone A boundaries onto a topographic map
and estimate a BFE.
         (b)   Add one-half of the contour interval of the topographic map that
is used to the BFE.
      (2)   Data extrapolation. A BFE can be determined if a site within 500
feet upstream of the project site has a full detailed study for which a 100-
year profile has been computed, and the floodplain and channel bottom slope
characteristics are relatively similar to the downstream reaches. No hydraulic
structures shall be present.
      (3)   Hydrologic and hydraulic calculations. Perform hydrologic and
hydraulic calculations to determine BFEs using FEMA approved methods and
software.
      (4)   A Zone model. BFE can be pulled from the model and applied if
determined that the BFE is useable.
(Ord. 2025-08, passed 11-17-2025)
§ 153.043 STANDARDS FOR STREAMS WITH BASE FLOOD ELEVATIONS BUT WITHOUT
FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Along rivers and streams where base flood elevation (BFE) data is
provided but no floodway is identified for a special flood hazard area on the
FIRM or in the FIS.
   (B)   No encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, or other development, shall be permitted unless certification
with supporting technical data by a registered professional engineer is
provided demonstrating that the cumulative effect of the proposed development,
when combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not
increase the water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at
any point within the community.
(Ord. 2025-08, passed 11-17-2025)
§ 153.044 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO ZONES).
   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
153.004 are areas designated as shallow flooding. The following provisions
shall apply within such areas:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor elevated to at least as high as the
depth number specified on the flood insurance rate map, in feet, above the
highest adjacent grade. If no depth number is specified, the lowest floor shall
be elevated at least three feet above the highest adjacent grade.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential
structures shall:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor elevated to at least as high as the depth
number specified on the flood insurance rate map, in feet, above the highest
adjacent grade. If no depth number is specified, the lowest floor shall be
elevated at least three feet above the highest adjacent grade; or
      (2)   Be completely flood-proofed together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities to or above that level so that any space below that level
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. Certification is required as stated
in §
153.027.
   (C)   All structures on slopes must have drainage paths around them to guide
water away from the structures.
(Ord. 2025-08, passed 11-17-2025)
§ 153.045 COASTAL HIGH HAZARD AREAS (V ZONES).
   This section shall be reserved for future use.
(Ord. 2025-08, passed 11-17-2025)
**** VARIANCE PROCEDURES ****
§ 153.060 ESTABLISHMENT OF APPEAL BOARD.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals, as established by the city, shall hear and
decide requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2025-08, passed 11-17-2025)
§ 153.061 RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board, or any taxpayer,
may appeal such decision to the court.
(Ord. 2025-08, passed 11-17-2025)
§ 153.062 HISTORIC STRUCTURES.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon the determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation
will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure
and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character
and design of the structure.
(Ord. 2025-08, passed 11-17-2025)
§ 153.063 FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USES.
   Variances may be issued for development necessary for the conduct of a
functionally dependent use, provided the criteria of this chapter are met, no
reasonable alternative exist, and the development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damage and create no additional threat to public safety.
(Ord. 2025-08, passed 11-17-2025)
§ 153.064 ACCESSORY, AGRICULTURAL STRUCTURES.
   A variance is authorized to be issued for the construction or substantial
improvement of accessory structures and agricultural structures, provided the
requirements of this section and the following are satisfied:
   (A)   Accessory structures. A determination that the proposed accessory
structure:
      (1)   Represents a minimal investment and has low damage potential
(amount of physical damage, contents damage, and loss of function).
      (2)   Is larger than the size limits specified in §
153.041(H).
      (3)   Complies with the wet floodproofing construction requirement of
division (C) below.
   (B)   Agricultural structures. A determination that the proposed
agricultural structure:
      (1)   Is used exclusively in connection with the production, harvesting,
storage, raising, or drying of agricultural commodities and livestock, or
storage of tools or equipment used in connection with these purposes or uses,
and will be restricted to such exclusive uses.
      (2)   Has low damage potential (amount of physical damage, contents
damage, and loss of function).
      (3)   Does not increase risks and pose a danger to public health, safety,
and welfare if flooded and contents are released, including but not limited to
the effects of flooding on manure storage, livestock confinement operations,
liquified natural gas terminals, and production and storage of highly volatile,
toxic, or water-reactive materials.
      (4)   Complies with the wet floodproofing construction requirements of
division (C) below.
   (C)   Wet floodproofing construction requirements. Wet floodproofed
structures shall:
      (1)   Be anchored to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement;
      (2)   Have flood damage resistant materials below the base flood
elevation built in accordance with Technical Bulletin 2, Flood Damage Resistant
Materials Requirement;
      (3)   Have mechanical, electrical, and utility equipment in compliance
with the requirements of §
153.040(F); and
      (4)   In special flood hazards area, have flood openings in compliance
with the requirements of §
153.041(D)(1).
   (D)   Coastal High Hazard Areas. Variances shall not be allowed in Coastal
High Hazard Areas.
(Ord. 2025-08, passed 11-17-2025)
§ 153.065 CONSIDERATIONS.
   In passing upon such applications, the Appeal Board shall consider all
technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards specified in other
sections of this chapter, and:
   (A)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury
of others;
   (B)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage, and
the safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and
emergency vehicles;
   (C)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   (D)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
   (E)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   (F)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding or
erosion damage, for the proposed use;
   (G)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development, and the relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
   (H)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
   (I)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, and water systems, and streets and bridges.
(Ord. 2025-08, passed 11-17-2025)
§ 153.066 FINDINGS.
   (A)   Findings listed above shall be submitted to the Appeal Board, in
writing, and included in the application for a variance.
   (B)   Additionally, comments from the Department of Natural Resources, Land,
Water, and Conservation Division, State Coordinator’s Office, may be provided
to the Appeal Board upon request and included in the permit file.
(Ord. 2025-08, passed 11-17-2025)
§ 153.067 FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result, unless a
CLOMR is obtained prior to issuance of the variance.
   (B)   In order to ensure the project is built in compliance with the CLOMR
for which the variance is granted, the applicant must provide a bond for 100%
of the cost to perform the development.
(Ord. 2025-08, passed 11-17-2025)
§ 153.068 CONDITIONS.
   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purposes of this
chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter. The
following conditions shall apply to all variances:
   (A)   Variances to this chapter may not be issued when the variance will
make the structure in violation of other federal, state, or local laws,
regulations, or ordinances.
   (B)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (C)   Variances shall only be issued upon a showing of good and sufficient
cause, a determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship, and a determination that the granting of a variance will
not result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisance, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (D)   (1)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given
written notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation (BFE)
and the elevation to which the structure is to be built and a written statement
that the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk.
      (2)   Such notification shall be maintained with a record of all variance
actions.
   (E)   The local Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all
appeal actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency (FEMA) upon request.
   (F)   (1)   Variances shall not be issued for unpermitted development or
other development that is not in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
      (2)   Violations must be corrected in accordance with §
153.029.
(Ord. 2025-08, passed 11-17-2025)
**** LEGAL STATUS PROVISIONS ****
§ 153.080 EFFECT ON RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES UNDER THE EXISTING ORDINANCE.
   This chapter in part comes forward by re-enactment of some of the provisions
of the flood damage prevention ordinance enacted June 18, 2012, and it is not
the intention to repeal but rather to re-enact and continue to enforce without
interruption of such existing provisions, so that all rights and liabilities
that have accrued thereunder are reserved and may be enforced. The enactment of
this chapter shall not affect any action, suit, or proceeding instituted or
pending. All provisions of the flood damage prevention ordinance of the city
enacted on June 18, 2012, as amended, which are not reenacted herein, are
repealed.
(Ord. 2025-08, passed 11-17-2025)
§ 153.081 EFFECT UPON OUTSTANDING BUILDING PERMITS.
   Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the plans,
construction, size, or designated use of any building, structure, or part
thereof for which a building permit has been granted by the Chief Building
Inspector or his or her authorized agents before the time of passage of this
chapter; provided, however, that when the start of construction has not begun
under such outstanding permit before the passage of this chapter, the
construction or use shall be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2025-08, passed 11-17-2025)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements, including violation of conditions and safeguards established
in connection with grants of variance or special exceptions, shall constitute a
misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than $500
or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both. Each day the violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense. Nothing herein contained
shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2025-08, passed 11-17-2025)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Transfer and assignment of the franchise to operate a
-        9-18-2006   cable television system from G Force, LLC, to Atlantic
                     Broadband (SC), LLC.
2025-01  6-16-2025   Granting consent to Spectrum Southeast, LLC for franchise
                     for cable or video service.
                    
 
TABLE II: AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Authorizing the city to transfer all of its rights, title,
0515-01  - -         and interest in real estate, comprising 0.44 acres, more
                     or less, to the Commission of Public Works of the city.
                     Adopting a contractual agreement between the city and the
4-19-21  4-19-2021   City Commission of Public Works to contract its billing
                     and collection services for sewer and garbage in the city.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to South Carolina Code
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO SOUTH CAROLINA CODE
S.C. Code Code Section
S.C. Code                   Code Section
Acts p. 487                 37.040
Acts p. 2401                10.02
2-7-20                      10.04
Title 5                     153.001
                            10.99;
5-7-30                      Ch. 34;
                            90.072
5-7-70                      30.08
5-7-80                      Ch. 90
5-7-160                     30.29
5-7-170                     30.05
5-7-180                     30.03
5-7-190                     30.28
5-7-200(b)                  30.06
5-7-210                     30.02
                            32.15;
5-7-220                     32.16;
                            32.17
5-7-230                     32.35
5-7-250                     30.26
5-7-270                     30.40
5-7-280                     150.30
5-7-290                     10.01
5-11-10 through 5-11-40     30.01
5-15-50                     31.04
5-15-145                    31.01
5-15-150                    30.04
5-21-110 et seq.            37.040
5-27-120                    Ch. 152
5-31-210                    33.15
5-31-210 et seq.            33.15
5-31-260                    33.15
5-31-270                    33.15
5-584                       90.047
Title 6                     153.001
6-1-700 through 6-1-770     37.075
6-9-10                      150.30
7-13-40                     31.06
12-49-740                   37.053
12-49-220 through 12-49-290 37.057
12-49-400 through 12-49-550 37.060
12-49-410 through 12-49-550 37.056;
                            37.058
12-51                       37.064
12-51-10 through 12-51-170  37.064
12-56-10 et seq.            53.001
12-56-63                    53.001
14-25-5                     35.01
14-25-15 et seq.            35.03
14-25-25                    35.03
14-25-45                    10.99;
                            35.02
14-25-65                    10.99;
                            35.02
14-25-65 et seq.            35.05
14-25-95                    35.08
14-25-105                   35.08
14-25-125                   35.06
14-25-135                   35.20
14-25-145                   35.20
14-25-155                   35.21
14-25-165                   35.22
14-25-175                   35.22
14-25-185                   35.23
14-25-195                   35.07
15-1-20                     10.02
16-3-61                     134.15
                            90.031;
16-3-1010                   90.070;
                            90.086
16-9-320                    131.02
16-11-510                   132.01
16-11-520                   132.01
16-11-700                   90.030
16-15-130                   133.04
16-15-260 et seq.           133.01
16-17-520                   131.16
                            90.015;
16-17-530                   131.15;
                            131.17
16-17-570                   92.03
16-19-50                    112.02
16-19-70                    112.01
16-23-10 et seq.            134.15
16-23-440                   134.16
23-35-10 et seq.            92.04
30-3-10 et seq.             30.26;
                            30.37
Title 31, Chapter 155       90.054
31-15-3                     90.055
40-56-20                    92.04
47-1-40                     91.02
47-1-50                     91.02
47-3-70                     91.15
47-5-210                    91.15;
                            91.16
49-23-10 et seq.            51.25
50-1-30                     91.01
50-11-30                    91.01
50-11-2010                  91.01
Title 56                    71.02
56-1-520                    10.99;
                            35.02
56-5                        70.01
56-5-2510                   35.01
56-5-2510 et seq.           Ch. 72
56-5-2520                   70.05
                            10.99;
56-5-6150                   35.02;
                            Ch. 70
61-62.2                     92.05
61-62.4                     92.05
79-42                       153.041
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2025 Code
Prior Code 2025 Code
1-1        10.01
1-2        10.02
1-3        10.03
1-4        10.04
1-5        10.05
1-6        10.06
1-7        10.07
1-8        10.99
1-9        10.08
2-1        30.01
2-2        33.01
2-3        32.01
2-4        32.35
2-5        32.35
2-6        32.35
2-20       30.02
2-21       30.03
2-23       30.05
2-24       30.06
2-25       30.07
2-26       30.08
2-27       30.09
2-28       30.10
2-30       30.25
2-31       30.26
2-32       30.27
2-33       30.28
2-34       30.29
2-35       30.30
2-36       30.31
2-37       30.32
2-38       30.33
2-39       30.34
2-40       30.35
2-41       30.36
2-42       30.37
2-43       30.38
2-44       30.39
2-45       30.40
2-46       30.41
2-50       32.15
2-51       32.16
2-52       32.17
2-53       32.18
2-54       32.19
2-55       32.20
2-56       32.21
2-57       32.22
2-58       32.23
2-59       32.24
3-1        91.01
3-2        91.02;
           91.99
3-3        91.03
3-20       91.15
3-21       91.16
3-22       91.16
3-23       91.17
3-24       91.18
3-25       91.19
3-26       91.19
3-27       91.19
4-1        150.15
4-2        150.16
4-3        150.17
4-4        150.18
4-5        150.19
4-6        150.45
4-7        150.01
4-8        150.02
5-1        34.01
5-2        34.02
5-3        34.03
5-4        34.03
5-5        34.04
5-6        34.05
5-7        34.06
5-8        34.07
5-9        34.07
5-10       34.07
5-11       34.07
5-12       34.99
6-1        35.01
6-2        35.02
6-3        35.03
6-4        35.03
6-5        35.04
6-6        35.05
6-7        35.06
6-8        35.20
6-9        35.21
6-10       35.22
6-11       35.23
6-12       35.07
6-13       35.08
6-14       36.01
8-1        37.001
8-2        37.002
8-3        37.003
8-4        37.004
8-20       37.015
8-21       37.016
8-22       37.017
8-23       37.018
8-25       37.020
8-26       37.021
8-27       37.022
8-28       37.023
8-29       37.024
8-30       37.025
8-40       37.040
8-41       37.041
8-42       37.042
8-43       37.043
8-44       37.044
8-45       37.045
8-46       37.046
8-47       37.047
8-48       37.047
8-49       37.047
8-50       37.048
8-51       37.049
8-52       37.050
8-53       37.051
8-54       37.052
8-55       37.053
8-56       37.054
8-57       37.055
8-58       37.056
8-59       37.057
8-60       37.058
8-61       37.059
8-62       37.060
8-63       37.061
8-64       37.062
8-65       37.063
8-66       37.064
9-1        150.30
9-2        150.31
9-3        92.01
9-4        92.02
9-5        92.03
10-1       90.001
10-2       90.002
10-20      90.015
10-21      90.016
10-22      90.017
10-23      90.018
10-30      90.030
10-31      90.031
10-35      90.003
10-40      90.070
10-41      90.071
10-42      90.072;
           90.073
10-50      90.085
10-51      90.086
10-52      90.087
10-53      90.088
10-54      90.089
10-56      90.089
10-57      90.091
10-58      90.092;
           90.999
11-2       33.15
11-3       33.15
11-4       33.15
11-5       33.15
11-6       50.01
11-7       50.02
11-20      51.01
11-21      51.02
11-22      51.03
11-23      51.04
11-24      51.05
11-26      51.06
11-27      51.07;
           51.99
11-28      51.08
11-29      51.09
11-30      51.10
11-39.8    51.99
12-60      111.01
12-61      111.02
12-62      111.03
12-63      111.04
12-64      111.05
12-65      111.06
12-66      111.07
12-67      111.08
12-68      111.09
12-69      111.10
12-70      111.11
12-71      111.12
12-72      111.13
13-1       131.01
13-2       131.02
13-3       131.03
13-4       134.02
13-5       135.01
13-6       131.15
13-7       131.16
13-8       130.01
13-9       130.02
13-14      112.01
13-15      112.02
13-16      112.03
13-17      132.01;
           132.99
13-18      132.02
13-19      132.03
13-22      133.04
13-23      133.01
13-24      133.02
13-25      133.02
13-26      133.03
13-27      134.01
13-28      134.15
13-29      134.16
13-30      134.17
13-31      134.18
13-32      131.17
13-34      110.02
14-1       93.01
14-2       93.01
14-3       93.01
14-4       93.01
14-5       93.02
14-6       93.03
14-7       93.04
16-1       152.01
16-2       152.02
16-3       152.02
16-4       152.03
16-5       152.04
16-6       152.05
16-7       152.06
17-1       70.01;
           70.99
17-2       70.02
17-3       70.03
17-4       70.04
17-5       71.01
17-6       70.05
17-7       Ch. 73, Schd. I
17-20      72.01
17-21      72.02
17-22      72.03
17-23      72.04
17-24      72.05
17-25      72.05
17-26      72.05
17-27      72.06
           
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        - -         51.25—51.27
-        3-23-2026   51.28
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed Code Section
-          - -         90.090;
                       90.999
                       51.03;
3-4-85     - -         51.04;
                       51.05
                       90.070—
                       90.073;
                       90.085—
3-8-82     - -         90.089;
                       90.091;
                       90.092;
                       90.999
4-11-83    - -         152.01
5-27-83    - -         92.01
                       150.01;
11-10-86   - -         150.02;
                       150.45
12-12-83   - -         37.064
0515-01    - -         TSO Table II
                       35.01—
4-11-83    4-11-1983   35.08;
                       35.20—
                       35.23
                       37.015—
10-10-83   10-10-1983  37.021;
                       37.023—
                       37.025
                       53.001;
                       53.015—
                       53.021;
                       53.035—
                       53.044;
98-0720    8-17-1998   53.055—
                       53.065;
                       53.080—
                       53.086;
                       53.100—
                       53.109;
                       53.999
-          9-18-2006   TSO Table I
-          10-16-2006  71.02
-          10-16-2006  90.085
-          5-21-2007   33.15
1-22-2008  1- -2008    51.09
101909     10-19-2009  92.04
9272011    10-17-2011  50.03
8-18-14    7-21-2014   53.001
8-5-14     8-18-2014   90.045—
                       90.055
8-18-14    9-15-2014   91.03;
                       91.99
06152015-3 6-15-2015   37.075;
                       37.999
2-16-16    2-16-2016   92.05;
                       92.99
                       133.15—
03-02-18   3-2-2018    133.17;
                       133.99
4-22-19    4-22-2019   91.03;
                       91.99
10-19-20   10-19-2020  151.01
01-18-21   1-18-2021   151.02
4-19-21    4-19-2021   TSO Table II
-          8-23-2021   113.01;
                       113.02
11-29-21-2 11-29-2021  30.04
12-19-22   12-19-2022  37.015—
                       37.019
5-15-23    5-15-2023   110.01
01-16-24   1-16-2024   53.001
09-16-24   9-16-2024   93.05;
                       93.99
11-18-2024 11-18-2024  30.42
2025-01    6-16-2025   TSO Table I
                       52.01—
2025-02    6-16-2025   52.18;
                       52.30—
                       52.34
                       30.04;
2025-05    10-20-2025  31.01—
                       31.07
2025-07    11-17-2025  110.03
                       153.001—
                       153.010;
                       153.025—
                       153.029;
                       153.040—
2025-08    11-17-2025  153.045;
                       153.060—
                       153.068;
                       153.080;
                       153.081;
                       153.999
2026-01    2-17-2026   32.36
                      
 
 
 
